Title: Cloud Design Patterns - Azure Architecture Center | Microsoft Learn
System design heavily relies on established design patterns. You can design infrastructure, code, and distributed systems by using a combination of these patterns. These patterns are crucial for building reliable, highly secure, cost-optimized, operationally efficient, and high-performing applications in the cloud. These misconceptions can result in flawed workload designs. Design patterns don't eliminate these misconceptions but help raise awareness, provide compensation strategies, and provide mitigations. Each cloud design pattern has trade-offs. Some patterns include code samples or snippets that show how to implement the pattern on Azure. The preceding cloud design patterns address common challenges in distributed systems, but AI workloads that use multiple autonomous agents require specialized coordination approaches. For AI workloads that include multiple autonomous agents, see AI agent orchestration patterns. These patterns complement the cloud design patterns in this catalog by addressing the specific coordination requirements of intelligent, autonomous components that work together to accomplish complex outcomes.

---

Title: Cloud design patterns, architectures, and implementations - AWS ...
Development teams must focus on network communication, polyglot persistence, horizontal scaling, eventual consistency, and transaction handling across the data stores when developing applications by using microservices architectures. Therefore, modernization patterns are critical for solving commonly occurring problems in modern application development, and they help accelerate software delivery. This guide provides a technical reference for cloud architects, technical leads, application and business owners, and developers who want to choose the right cloud architecture for design patterns based on well-architected best practices. This guide provides guidance for implementing commonly used modernization design patterns by using AWS services. An increasing number of modern applications are designed by using microservices architectures to achieve scalability, improve release velocity, reduce the scope of impact for changes, and reduce regression. Each pattern discussed in this guide addresses one or more known scenarios in microservices architectures. The guide discusses the issues and considerations associated with each pattern, provides a high-level architectural implementation, and describes the AWS implementation for the pattern. Design and implement reliable, secure, operationally efficient architectures that are optimized for cost and performance. Reduce the cycle time for use cases that require these patterns, so you can focus on organization-specific challenges instead.

---

Title: What are Cloud design patterns ? — An overview : Part 1 | by Abhinav Vinci | Medium
What are Cloud design patterns ? — An overview : Part 1 Cloud design patterns are architectural solutions to common problems encountered when designing and implementing applications in cloud … Cloud design patterns are architectural solutions to common problems encountered when designing and implementing applications in cloud environment. Data Lake: In this pattern, large volumes of structured and unstructured data are stored in a centralized repository (the data lake) in its native format. Data can be ingested from various sources, and different analytics and processing tools can access the data for analysis, machine learning, and reporting purposes. ... Serverless Architecture: Also known as Function-as-a-Service (FaaS), it allows developers to deploy individual functions or pieces of code without managing the underlying infrastructure. This architecture scales automatically based on demand and reduces operational overhead. ... Circuit Breaker: Prevents a service from repeatedly attempting to execute an operation that is likely to fail. If a service detects that a dependent service is unavailable or responding slowly, it can open the circuit and stop sending requests until the dependent service is available again. https://martinfowler.com/bliki/CircuitBreaker.html · Retry Pattern: Automatically retries an operation that has failed due to transient faults such as network issues or temporary service unavailability.

---

Title: Cloud Architecture Patterns [Book]
If your team is investigating ways to design applications for the cloud, this concise book introduces 11 architecture patterns that can help you take advantage of cloud-platform services. You’ll learn how each of these platform-agnostic patterns work, when they might be useful in the cloud, and what impact they’ll have on your application architecture. Scalability DefinedVertically Scaling UpHorizontally Scaling OutDescribing ScalabilityThe Scale UnitResource Contention Limits ScalabilityEasing Resource ContentionScalability is a Business ConcernThe Cloud-Native ApplicationCloud Platform DefinedCloud-Native Application DefinedSummary

---

Title: If you&#39;re working in cloud, here are 7 architecture patterns you need to know..
(plus when each one makes sense to use)

Before we start ~ why should you care about architecture patterns?

Because… | Vishakha Sadhwani | 42 comments
