Title: Semiconductor Latest News | SIA
**Key Points:** WSTS Login
 
 Contact
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Latest News
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 Reset
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Press Release: 04/03/26
 Global Semiconductor Sales Increase Substantially in February
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Worldwide chip sales up 61. Global trade negotiators will convene March 26-29 for […]
 
 Trade
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Blog: 03/18/26
 Answering the Call: The Critical Role of Veterans in Powering America’s Semiconductor Workforce
 
 
 
 by James Redstone, Director, Government Affairs 
 
 The U. During a recent Semiconductor Industry […]
 
 Workforce & Immigration
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Press Release: 03/06/26
 Global Semiconductor Sales Increase 3.

WSTS Login
 
 Contact
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Latest News
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 Reset
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Press Release: 04/03/26
 Global Semiconductor Sales Increase Substantially in February
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Worldwide chip sales up 61.8% year-to-year, 7.6% month-to-month WASHINGTON—April 3, 2026—The Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) today announced global semiconductor sales were $88.8 billion during the month of February 2026, an increase of 7.6% compared to the January 2026 total of $82.5 billion and 61.8% more than the February 2025 total of $54.9 billion. Monthly sales […]
 
 Market Data
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Press Release: 04/01/26
 Lapse of Key Digital Trade Measure Undermines Economic Growth, Innovation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WASHINGTON—April 1, 2026—Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) President and CEO John Neuffer today expressed disappointment trade negotiators from around the world failed to reach an agreement to permanently prohibit duties on digital trade during last week’s World Trade Organization (WTO) Ministerial Conference in Yaoundé, Cameroon. The duty-free flow of data and digital goods advances trade in semiconductor […]
 
 Chip Design and R&DTrade
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Press Release: 03/24/26
 It’s Time to Make Permanent the WTO Moratorium on Customs Duties on Electronic Transmissions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WASHINGTON—March 24, 2026—The Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) today released the following statement from SIA President and CEO John Neuffer urging trade negotiators from the United States and around the world to renew and make permanent the World Trade Organization (WTO) Moratorium on Customs Duties on Electronic Transmissions. Global trade negotiators will convene March 26-29 for […]
 
 Trade
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Blog: 03/18/26
 Answering the Call: The Critical Role of Veterans in Powering America’s Semiconductor Workforce
 
 
 
 by James Redstone, Director, Government Affairs 
 
 The U.S. semiconductor industry is experiencing a period of historic growth. New investments in manufacturing, R&D, and design are helping to strengthen America’s leadership in semiconductor technology. But to fully realize this opportunity, the industry must also address the critical challenge of building the workforce needed to support this expansion. During a recent Semiconductor Industry […]
 
 Workforce & Immigration
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Press Release: 03/06/26
 Global Semiconductor Sales Increase 3.7% Month-to-Month in January
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Worldwide chip sales increase 46.1% year-to-year WASHINGTON—March 6, 2026—The Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) today announced global semiconductor sales were $82.5 billion during the month of January 2026, an increase of 3.7% compared to the December 2025 total of $79.6 billion and 46.1% more than the January 2025 total of $56.5 billion. Monthly sales are compiled […]
 
 Market Data
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Press Release: 03/02/26
 SIA Statement on Chip Security Act
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WASHINGTON—Mar. 2, 2026—The Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) today released the following statement from President and CEO John Neuffer opposing the Chip Security Act (S. 1705/H.R. 3447). “SIA members are fully committed to complying with export controls, and we strongly oppose the illicit diversion and misuse of our chip technologies. While we understand policymakers’ interest in […]
 
 Supply Chain Security
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Press Release: 02/26/26
 James Redstone Joins SIA as Director of Government Affairs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Redstone most recently served as a staff member on the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies WASHINGTON, Feb. 26, 2026 – The Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) today announced James Redstone has joined the association as director of government affairs. In this role, Redstone will work with Congress, […]
 
 Chip Design and R&DEnvironment, Health & SafetyExport Control and National Security PolicyResearchSupply Chain SecurityTaxWorkforce & Immigration
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Press Release: 02/06/26
 Global Annual Semiconductor Sales Increase 25.6% to $791.7 Billion in 2025
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Logic and memory products saw largest growth; annual sales projected to reach roughly $1 trillion worldwide in 2026 WASHINGTON—Feb. 6, 2026—The Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) today announced global semiconductor sales hit $791.7 billion in 2025, an increase of 25.6% compared to the 2024 total of $630.5 billion. Additionally, fourth-quarter sales of $236.6 billion were 37.1% […]
 
 Market Data
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Press Release: 01/28/26
 John Neuffer to Retire as SIA President and CEO
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 After more than a decade of leadership, Neuffer to retire, leaving a legacy of policy achievements that have greatly strengthened the semiconductor industry   WASHINGTON—Jan. 28, 2026—The Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) today announced John Neuffer will retire during the middle of 2026 following a highly successful 11-year tenure as SIA president and CEO. SIA represents […]
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Press Release: 01/08/26
 Global Semiconductor Sales Increase 29.8% Year-to-Year in November
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 November’s sales mark the global industry’s highest-ever monthly total; worldwide chip sales increase 3.5% month-to-month WASHINGTON—Jan. 8, 2026—The Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) today announced global semiconductor industry sales totaled $75.3 billion during the month of November 2025, an increase of 29.8% compared to the November 2024 total of $58.0 billion and 3.5% more than the […]
 
 Market Data
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Press Release: 12/19/25
 SIA Supports U.S. State Department’s Pax Silica Initiative
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WASHINGTON – Dec. 19, 2025 – The Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) today released the following statement from President and CEO John Neuffer in support of the recently launched Pax Silica initiative, which will function as the Department of State’s flagship effort on AI and supply chain security. “The U.S. State Department’s Pax Silica initiative represents […]
 
 Supply Chain Security
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Press Release: 12/10/25
 SIA Urges House Passage of Bipartisan Environmental Review and Permitting Reform Legislation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WASHINGTON – Dec. 10, 2025 – The Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) today released the following statement from President and CEO John Neuffer urging passage in the U.S. House of Representatives of the Standardizing Permitting and Expediting Economic Development (SPEED) Act of 2025, bipartisan legislation to make critical reforms to streamline environmental review under the National […]
 
 Environment, Health & SafetySupply Chain Security
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1101 K Street NW Suite 450, Washington, DC 20005
 E-mail
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sign up for SIA News
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 © 2026 Semiconductor Industry Association. All Rights Reserved.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy Policy

---

Title: Semiconductor Sector Navigates AI Surge, Regulatory Shift
**Key Points:** Recent regulatory developments from Washington have added a new layer of dynamics for investors tracking funds like the VanEck Semiconductor UCITS ETF. Department of Commerce unexpectedly withdrew a proposed draft rule concerning the export of AI chips. This reversal removes a substantial element of uncertainty that had been looming over the global supply chains for semiconductor manufacturers.

                   News SucheMenü ein-/ausblendenBlogsBilderNews   Sie befinden sind hier: Startseite > Börse > Ueberblick > Semiconductor Sector Navigates AI Surge Regulatory ...        US withdraws AI chip export rule, easing regulatory uncertainty for semiconductor investors. Massive AI demand drives record revenue, but huge capital spending raises profitability concerns.         Semiconductor Sector Navigates AI Surge, Regulatory Shift - Foto: über boerse-global.de             The semiconductor industry finds itself balancing extraordinary revenue growth driven by artificial intelligence against the weight of massive capital expenditure. Recent regulatory developments from Washington have added a new layer of dynamics for investors tracking funds like the VanEck Semiconductor UCITS ETF. A Surprise Move from Regulators In a significant mid-March development, the U.S. Department of Commerce unexpectedly withdrew a proposed draft rule concerning the export of AI chips. The initial regulatory plan would have imposed conditions on foreign investment in U.S. data centers or required stringent security guarantees for large chip shipments. This reversal removes a substantial element of uncertainty that had been looming over the global supply chains for semiconductor manufacturers. For holders of the VanEck Semiconductor ETF, this decision clarifies the regulatory landscape for the foreseeable future. The fund’s upcoming scheduled rebalancing will continue to enforce its rule that no single holding, such as NVIDIA or Broadcom, exceeds a ten percent weighting. Massive Investments Cast a Shadow The breakneck growth in AI demand comes with a steep price tag. Micron Technology recently announced plans to spend more than $25 billion on new manufacturing facilities in its 2026 fiscal year, with an additional $10 billion already earmarked for the following year. These aggressive spending plans have introduced a note of caution among some market participants, who are closely monitoring long-term profitability despite the current high demand. This sentiment was reflected in the ETF’s performance last Friday, which saw its price decline by approximately 2.5 percent to 58.76 euros. Despite this, the fund remains in positive territory for the year, holding a gain of nearly seven percent since January.Should investors sell immediately? Or is it worth buying VanEck Semiconductor UCITS ETF? AI Demand Fuels Record Revenue The insatiable need for computing power to fuel artificial intelligence continues to be the primary engine for sector growth. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) reported a year-over-year revenue increase exceeding 22 percent for February 2026. The trend is even more pronounced at Broadcom, where semiconductor sales surged 52 percent higher in the first quarter of fiscal 2026. The company’s revenue specifically from AI more than doubled, soaring by 106 percent. The sector remains a study in contrasts, where stellar sales figures coexist with investor scrutiny over the capital required to sustain them, all within a newly clarified regulatory environment.AdVanEck Semiconductor UCITS ETF Stock: New Analysis - 22 MarchFresh VanEck Semiconductor UCITS ETF information released. What's the impact for investors? Our latest independent report examines recent figures and market trends.Read our updated VanEck Semiconductor UCITS ETF analysis...   So schätzen die Börsenprofis Semiconductor Aktien ein!   Seit 2005 liefert der Börsenbrief trading-notes verlässliche Anlage-Empfehlungen – dreimal pro Woche, direkt ins Postfach. 100% kostenlos. 100% Expertenwissen. Trage einfach deine E-Mail Adresse ein und verpasse ab heute keine Top-Chance mehr. Jetzt abonnieren.
Für. Immer. Kostenlos.     en | IE00BMC38736 | SEMICONDUCTOR | boerse | 68956506 |                         Börsenlexikon   ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ      AktienkurseDAXMDAXTECDAXSDAXDow JonesNachrichtenBörseWirtschaftPolitikSportWissenschaftAuslandPolizeiUnterhaltungInternationalKalenderblattbrokerCFDFOREXRohstoffeHandelssystemeHandelssignaleAktienZertifikate & OptionsscheineBörsenseminareServiceAD HOC NEWSBREAKWatchlistBörsenlexikonRSS_FeedsNachrichten ArchivKontaktWeitere Angebotetrading-house.net AGKostenlose Börsenseminaredirektbroker.depoppress.deKursinformationen positive Kursänderung negative Kursänderung Keine Kursänderung Realtime min 15. Minuten Schlusskurs   Menü  NEWSAKTIENKURSEBÖRSEWIRTSCHAFTPOLITIKSPORTUNTERHALTUNGWISSENSCHAFTAUSLANDPOLIZEIINTERNATIONALSONSTIGEARCHIVBLOGSKALENDERBLATTNEWSLETTERBÖRSENLEXIKONRSSWATCHLIST          Wir verwenden Cookies, um Inhalte und Anzeigen zu personalisieren, Funktionen für soziale Medien anbieten zu können und die Zugriffe auf unsere Website zu analysieren. Außerdem geben wir Informationen zu Ihrer Nutzung unserer Website an unsere Partner für soziale Medien, Werbung und Analysen weiter.Details   Verstanden               

---

Title: 2026 Global Semiconductor Industry Outlook - Deloitte
**Definition:** e state of the market today
The global semiconductor industry is expected to reach US$975 billion in annual sales in 2026, a historic peak fueled by an intensifying AI infrastructure boom (figure 1).

**Key Points:** Capitalizing on the AI data center boom in 2026 … with caution
The chip market is heavily exposed to AI chips for data centers, with up to roughly half of industry revenues expected to come from that market in 2026. A leading AI chip manufacturer has secured about 800,000 wafers for its main chip in 2026 and produces about 20 chips per wafer, suggesting approximately 16 million chips in total. Jeroen Kusters, Deb Bhattacharjee, Jordan Bish, Jan Thomas Nicholas, Duncan Stewart, and Karthik Ramachandran, 2025 Global Semiconductor Industry Outlook, Deloitte Insights, Feb.

## 2026 Global Human Capital Trends
Article                       
                
            
            
            
            
            
            
             • 
            
                9-min read


## 2025 global semiconductor industry outlook
Chip sales are set to soar in 2025, led by generative AI and data center build-outs, even as demand from PC and mobile markets may remain muted
Article                       
                
            
            
            
            
            
            
             • 
            
                18-min read


## New technologies and familiar challenges could make semiconductor supply chains more fragile
With escalating trade restrictions on critical next-gen AI chip technologies, leaders should adapt quickly to make supply chains more resilient
Article                       
                
            
            
            
            
            
            
             • 
            
                9-min read


## 2026 Global Human Capital Trends
Article                       
                
            
            
            
            
            
            
             • 
            
                9-min read


## Why AI’s next phase will likely demand more computational power, not less
Many believe moving from training AI models to using them at scale means more computing on the edge and less in the data center. Neither is likely in 2026.
Article                       
                
            
            
            
            
            
            
             • 
            
                11-min read


## The rise of creative AI investments and deals that enable vertical integration
Strategic alliances among the broader AI, semiconductor, and cloud infrastructure providers have heralded a new AI computing capital cycle. Investments made in 2025 will likely continue or accelerate in 2026, creating a funding and demand ecosystem where capital and computing resources flow back and forth among companies mainly involved in AI model development, AI accelerator design, production, packaging, and data center infrastructure.33 For instance, an investing company (typically a chip hardware, platform, or cloud infrastructure provider) may invest billions of dollars in an AI startup to accelerate the development of solutions. In return, the AI startup would rapidly incubate and accelerate new product development and, in turn, buy the investing company’s computing resources and infrastructure offerings. These moves have become a way for chip companies to achieve vertical integration across the AI data center stack.
Besides AI training and inference workloads,34 another factor driving the surge in the semiconductor industry’s investment activity is the geopolitical imperative, even as governments and businesses want to influence regional technology infrastructure.35 Many governments consider AI models, chip design intellectual property, and leading AI accelerators to be critical to national security, supply chain resilience, and tech sovereignty.36 Increasingly, governments are seeking to secure these capabilities through export control measures to help bolster local and regional availability of leading-edge AI chip manufacturing capabilities,37 so that homegrown chipmakers can expand their market presence. Concurrently, they’re seeking to find a balance between limiting the export of strategic AI and technology products by allowing some of the advanced chips to be exported. For example, the US government in December 2025 approved NVIDIA to sell H200 AI chips to a set of approved customers in China, in return for a 25% share in NVIDIA’s chip sales.38 In the midst of these developments, Europe appears caught between US export controls (restricting advanced chip sales to China) and China’s countermeasures.
As tech and chip majors continue to pursue this new form of vertical integration (referred to as circular financing by some industry analysts), the semiconductor industry’s capital allocation strategies may need to shift from capacity- to capability-driven models, with an emphasis on achieving AI system-level differentiation. In 2026 and beyond, chip companies should not only consider expanding the breadth and scope of their operations by establishing more AI fabs or developing new AI chip platforms, but also foster strategic partnerships and make direct investments to build an ecosystem around their fab or chip platforms.
Traditional volume-based foundries may want to integrate advanced packaging capabilities. OSATs could codesign chiplets with integrated device manufacturers and design players, while electronic design automation companies and foundries could benefit from collaborating closely with wafer-fab front-end equipment providers. As chip industry executives look for ways to deploy their cash strategically, they should consider assessing talent needs and skill availability, core competencies, and partner models that are more region- or country-specific. This assessment should also include non-AI market opportunities by focusing on mature chip nodes to address automotive and electric vehicle, aerospace and defense, manufacturing, and power infrastructure markets—many of which could be specific to the countries in which they operate.


## Capitalizing on the AI data center boom in 2026 … with caution
The chip market is heavily exposed to AI chips for data centers, with up to roughly half of industry revenues expected to come from that market in 2026.17 But what might prevent that from happening? And what could that mean for the semiconductor industry, especially if non–data center markets such as the PC, smartphone, and automotive sectors remain weak?
First, those expectations are unlikely to change in 2026. The chips have already been ordered and are in backlog, data centers are under construction, and the numbers for the next 12 months are likely solid. But 2027 and 2028 could diverge sharply from current expectations for reasons noted below:
Return on investment: Most organizations building data centers don’t expect to recoup all their money in the first year. But over five- to 15-year periods, there should be reliable revenue flows whose present value generates some level of return for investors. If monetization of AI looks like it may take longer or be lower than expected, data center projects could be canceled or postponed, with an adverse impact on chip sales.Power: AI data centers are expected to need 92 gigawatts of additional electric power by 2027.18 That power may not be available from the grid, and while some “behind-the-meter” gas generation was feasible in 2025, turbines are sold out going forward, making future gas generation increasingly challenging.19 Securing data center permits may get difficult due to the risk of rising electricity rates for consumers.Innovation: Every generation of chips becomes substantially more efficient, likely making the incumbent installed base more of a liability than an asset. AI models used for training and inference appear, over time, to become more efficient and need less computational demand (or “compute,” to industry insiders) for the same tasks.20 These trends may already be baked into data center capex plans, but an orders-of-magnitude breakthrough in either could mean the need for fewer or cheaper chips.Pricing: AI chips are currently expensive and command high margins.21 If new competitive chips are introduced at lower prices, this could have a deflationary effect on the overall chip market, especially pricing.
What could some or all of the above mean for the chip industry over the next one to three years?
Money and market impact: Chip designers and manufacturers that currently benefit from AI tailwinds could face headwinds. Revenue growth could decrease or turn negative. Earnings could be lower. Price-to-earnings and price-to-sales multiples could fall, and market caps could decline.
Fabs, tools, design tools, and more: Since AI chips are high in value but low in volume, a decline in revenues would likely have relatively little impact on companies that manufacture chips or the tools used to make them. Even if AI-chip volumes fall, because AI chips make up a small part of manufacturing capacity, it likely wouldn’t mean that fabs go idle. That said, companies producing certain types of packaging, memory, power, and communications semiconductors could be affected.




---

Title: Reported Draft Rules Signal New Semiconductor Export ...
**Key Points:** The reported draft regulations also come as Nvidia announced that it was halting production of H200 chips intended for the Chinese market, amidst continued U. If the Commerce Department does issue a rule establishing the reported framework, it would be the Trump administration’s most substantive step to date towards a global chip export control strategy. The AI Diffusion Rule was issued as an interim final rule which created a global license requirement for advanced AI chips classified under Export Control Classification Numbers (ECCNs) 3A090.

Stephan E. Becker

 
 Matthew Oresman

 
 Matthew R. Rabinowitz

 
 Roya Motazedi

 
 Daniel Steinfeld
 
 On March 5, news outlets reported that the U.S. government is drafting new export control regulations for AI chips. A copy of the draft regulations is not publicly available. According to reports, the draft regulations would cover most high-end processors sold by U.S. companies, positioning the U.S. as a gatekeeper for the global AI industry.

Reports indicated that the licensing and approval process would depend on the amount of computing power involved in any given export. Shipments of up to 1,000 Nvidia GB300 GPUs or the equivalent would undergo “fairly simple review” with exemptions. Larger exports to companies building extensive computing clusters would require more pre-clearance and be subject to a stricter export licensing regime with conditions attached. Conditions could include disclosure of business models or allowing U.S. government access to facilities for site visits. Large exports of more than 200,000 GB300s or the equivalent would likely require host country government involvement. Exports of this size would only be permitted for projects located in allied countries, and host countries would be required to make “matching” investments in American AI.
The reported draft regulations also come as Nvidia announced that it was halting production of H200 chips intended for the Chinese market, amidst continued U.S. regulatory pressure and Chinese restrictions intended to protect its domestic chip industry. The Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) issued a final rule in January 2026, which changed licensing policy for H200 exports from the U.S. from a presumption of denial to a case-by-case review policy. However, license applicants were required to provide extensive certifications and documentation for case-by-case review eligibility. The administration also issued a presidential Proclamation imposing a narrow 25% tariff on certain semiconductors and related equipment, which included H200s.
If the Commerce Department does issue a rule establishing the reported framework, it would be the Trump administration’s most substantive step to date towards a global chip export control strategy.
In May 2025, the Trump administration rescinded the Biden administration’s AI Diffusion Rule. The AI Diffusion Rule was issued as an interim final rule which created a global license requirement for advanced AI chips classified under Export Control Classification Numbers (ECCNs) 3A090.a, 4A090.a, and related .z items, with license exceptions for certain low-risk destinations and transactions that complied with strict safeguards. It also established a tiered framework for all other destinations, including country-specific allocations and expanded Data Center Validated End User (VEU) authorizations. Upon the Trump administration’s recission of the AI Diffusion Rule, it announced that it would issue a replacement diffusion rule, without providing a timeline for release.
Although aspects of the reported draft regulations seem to mirror the Biden administration’s AI Diffusion Rule, the Commerce Department has denied that it will issue rules that resemble Biden administration policies. It remains unclear exactly how restrictive the reported new framework will be. Questions also remain around how the framework will address model weights and reciprocal AI investment from foreign countries. Reporting indicates that the draft regulations will not significantly change the direction of administration efforts to limit China’s chip production and AI-related technological development.
Share this:
 Click to print (Opens in new window)
 Print

---

Title: Chips Act | Updates, Compliance, Training
**Key Points:** In particular, the Initiative will support the development of design libraries for quantum chips, new or existing pilot lines, cleanrooms and foundries for prototyping and producing quantum chips as well as facilities for testing and validating advanced quantum chips produced by the pilot lines. Through the European Chips Act, the European Union aims to reach its target to double its current global market share to 20% in 2030. But there is currently a global shortage of semiconductors due to several factors, including disruptions related to the COVID-19 pandemic and the increased use of semiconductors in cars.

## Chips Act | Updates, Compliance
What is the European Chips Act?
According to Article 1, the European Chips Act is a Regulation that establishes a framework for strengthening the semiconductor ecosystem in the EU, in particular through:
(a) the establishment of the Chips for Europe Initiative (the ‘Initiative’);
(b) setting the criteria to recognise and to support integrated production facilities and open EU foundries that are first-of-a-kind facilities and that foster the security of supply and the resilience of the Union’s semiconductor ecosystem;
(c) setting up a coordination mechanism between the Member States and the Commission for mapping and monitoring the Union’s semiconductor sector as well as crisis prevention and response to semiconductor shortages and, where relevant, consulting stakeholders from the semiconductor sector.
23 April 2026, European Institutions agree Roadmap - The European Chips Act 2 is scheduled for Q2 2027
With a Joint Roadmap, the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union, and the European Commission commit to achieving One Europe, One Market, through decisive progress in 2026 and by the end of 2027 at the latest across the following five strategic building blocks:
(1) simplifying rules;
(2) a more integrated Single Market including by removing the ten most harmful barriers;
(3) championing strong trade;
(4) reducing energy prices and decarbonising; and
(5) driving the digital and AI transformation.
The Roadmap is a political and operational commitment: it sets out in its annex key legislative and policy initiatives across the five strategic building blocks and corresponding timelines for agreement.
https://commission.europa.eu/document/download/5445de81-9481-4335-9902-9756159ba614_en?filename=one-europe-one-market-roadmap.pdf
Our note: The timeline in the Commission roadmap is indicative and not a formal legal schedule. “Q4 2027” should be understood as a target window. It does not specifically refer to publication in the Official Journal or legal entry into force. Formal legal steps will follow afterward and may extend beyond this date. These timelines should be treated as strategic planning guidance.
October 20, 2025, Commission work programme 2026, planned timing of the Commission’s proposal for a NEW Chips Act: Q1 2026
In the Commission work programme (CWP), every initiative has:
1. A type (“legislative”, “non-legislative”, “evaluation”),
2. A legal basis (here, Articles 114 and 173 TFEU), and
3. An indicative timing (like Q1 2026).
When an item is marked “legislative”, it means the Commission intends to present a legislative proposal to the European Parliament and the Council during that quarter, in this case, between January and March 2026.
We have discussed the problems with the first Chips Act since 2023 at: "Has the EU been left behind despite the Chips Act?":
https://www.european-chips-act.com/USA_Semiconductor_Legislation.html
12 March 2025 - Nine EU Member States have launched the Semiconductor Coalition
Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Poland, Spain and the Netherlands issued a statement where they agreed to reinforce their cooperation to strengthen European’s competitiveness and strategic autonomy in the semiconductor sector by supporting research, expanding production capacity, and fostering a highly skilled workforce.
The European Commission welcomed the Semiconductor Coalition, which provides a strong signal of Member States’ commitment to fostering an innovative, competitive, and resilient semiconductor ecosystem in Europe. The Commission strongly supports this initiative and looks forward to continued collaboration with all Member States and with public and private semiconductors stakeholders.
The European Commission has been already working with Member States through the Chips Act, which has mobilized over €80 billion in investments for semiconductor manufacturing and R&D. The work of the Semiconductor Coalition will contribute valuable insights as we evaluate and refine this policy framework to further support Europe’s ambitions in the semiconductor field.
30 November 2023 - The official inauguration of the Chips Joint Undertaking (Chips JU)
The European Commission has officially inaugurated the Chips Joint Undertaking (Chips JU), which will reinforce the European semiconductor ecosystem and Europe's technological leadership. It will bridge the gap between research, innovation and production thereby facilitating the commercialisation of innovative ideas.
The Chips JU is the main implementer of the Chips for Europe Initiative (expected total budget €15.8 billion until 2030). The Chips JU aims at strengthening Europe's semiconductor ecosystem and economic security by managing an expected budget of nearly €11 billion by 2030, provided by the EU and participating states.
The Chips JU will:
- Set up pre-commercial, innovative pilot lines, providing industry state-of-the-art facilities to test, experiment and validate semiconductor technologies and system design concepts;
- Deploy a cloud-based Design Platform for design companies across the EU;
- Support the development of advanced technology and engineering capacities for quantum chips;
- Establish a network of competence centres and promote skills development.
The work of the Chips JU reinforces Europe's technological leadership by facilitating the transfer of knowledge from the lab to the fab, bridging the gap between research, innovation and industrial activities, and by promoting the commercialisation of innovative technologies by European industry including start-ups and SMEs.
21 September 2023 - The European Chips Act enters into force
The European Chips Act consists of three main pillars.
The first pillar - the Chips for Europe Initiative - reinforces Europe's technological leadership, by facilitating the transfer of knowledge from the lab to the fab, bridging the gap between research and innovation and industrial activities and by promoting the industrialisation of innovative technologies by European businesses. The Chips for Europe Initiative will be primarily implemented by the Chips Joint Undertaking.
The Initiative will be supported by €3.3 billion of EU funds, which is expected to be matched by funds from Member States. Concretely, this investment will support activities such as the setting up of advanced pilot production lines to accelerate innovation and technology development, the development of a cloud-based design platform, the establishment of competence centres, the development of quantum chips, as well as the creation of a Chips Fund to facilitate access to debt financing and equity.
The Chips for Europe Initiative has the following five operational objectives:
1. Setting up a Design Platform.
2. Enhancing existing and developing new advanced pilot lines.
3. Building capacities for accelerating the development of Quantum chips and associated semiconductor technologies.
4. Establishing a network of competence centres across the Union.
5. Setting up a Chips Fund to facilitate access to debt financing and equity, in particular for start-ups, scale-ups, SMEs and small mid-caps.
With the exception of the Chips Fund (which will be implemented by the European Innovation Council and InvestEU), the Initiative will mainly be implemented through the Chips Joint Undertaking;— previously known as the Key Digital Technologies Joint Undertaking.
The Initiative is supported by funding from the Horizon Europe and the Digital Europe programmes.
Design Platform.
The design platform proposed in the Chips Act is a cloud-based virtual environment to be made available across the Union, integrating a wide range of design facilities, from IP libraries to Electronic Design Automation (EDA) tools, as well as support services. The platform will be accessible in an open, non-discriminatory and transparent way. It will stimulate wide cooperation between users and key actors of the ecosystem and reinforce Europe’s chip design capacity.
Pilot Lines.
The Chips for Europe Initiative includes a number of pilot lines for the purpose of process development, test and experimentation, as well as small-scale production. These will serve as a platform for European research and development with an industrial perspective to bridge the gap from lab to fab.
A non-exhaustive list of three pilot line areas of strategic importance for Europe has already been identified:
- Sub-2nm GAA process technology development
- FD-SOI technology at 10nm and below
- Heterogeneous integration
Quantum Chips and associated semiconductor technologies.
The Chips for Europe Initiative will also focus on the specific needs of the future generation of information processing components exploiting non-classical principles, notably chips exploiting quantum effects (i.e., quantum chips).
In particular, the Initiative will support the development of design libraries for quantum chips, new or existing pilot lines, cleanrooms and foundries for prototyping and producing quantum chips as well as facilities for testing and validating advanced quantum chips produced by the pilot lines.
The second pillar of the European Chips Act incentivises public and private investments in manufacturing facilities for chipmakers and their suppliers.
The second pillar creates a framework to ensure security of supply by attracting investments and enhancing production capacities in semiconductor manufacturing. To this end, it sets out a framework for Integrated Production Facilities and Open EU Foundries that are “first-of-a-kind” in the Union and contribute to the security of supply and to a resilient ecosystem in the Union interest. The Commission has already indicated at the time of the Chips Act proposal that State aid may be granted to first-of-a-kind facilities, in accordance with the Treaty on the functioning of the European Union.
In its third pillar, the European Chips Act has established a coordination mechanism between the Member States and the Commission for strengthening collaboration with and across Member States, monitoring the supply of semiconductors, estimating demand, anticipating shortages, and, if necessary, triggering the activation of a crisis stage. As a first step, a semiconductor alert system has been set up on 18 April 2023. It allows any stakeholder to report semiconductor supply chain disruptions.
18 April 2023 - The European Commission welcomes the political agreement on the European Chips Act
The Commission welcomes the political agreement reached between the European Parliament and the EU Member States on the European Chips Act.
Semiconductors are at the centre of strong geostrategic interests, and of the global technological race. For this reason, the Commission proposed the European Chips Act, which strengthens European competitiveness and resilience in this strategic sector.
Chips are the essential building blocks of digital and digitised products. From smartphones and cars, through critical applications and infrastructures for healthcare, energy, defence, communications and industrial automation, chips are central to the modern digital economy.
Recent shortages of semiconductors have highlighted Europe's dependency on a limited number of suppliers outside of the EU, in particular Taiwan and South-East Asia for manufacturing of chips, and the United States for their design. To respond to critical dependencies, the European Chips Act will strengthen manufacturing activities in the Union, stimulate the European design ecosystem, and support scale-up and innovation across the whole value chain. Through the European Chips Act, the European Union aims to reach its target to double its current global market share to 20% in 2030.
The first pillar of the Act - the Chips for Europe Initiative - will reinforce Europe's technological leadership, by facilitating the transfer of knowledge from the lab to the fab, bridging the gap between research and innovation and industrial activities and by promoting the industrialisation of innovative technologies by European businesses.
The Chips for Europe Initiative will combine investments from the Union, Member States and the private sector, through a strategic reorientation of the Key Digital Technologies Joint Undertaking (renamed ‘Chips Joint Undertaking'). The Initiative will be supported by €6.2 billion of public funds, of which €3.3 billion from the EU budget agreed today for the period until 2027, the end of the current multi-annual financial framework.
This support will come in addition to €2.6 billion public funding already foreseen for semiconductor technologies. The €6.2 billion will support activities, such as the development of a design platform and setting up of pilot lines to accelerate innovation and production.
The Initiative will also help the establishment of competence centres, located across Europe, which will provide access to technical expertise and experimentation, helping companies, SMEs in particular, to improve design capabilities and developing skills. Together with design centres of excellence, they will become poles of attraction for innovation and for new talent. Moreover, to support start-ups and SMEs, access to finance will be ensured through a Chips Fund and a dedicated semiconductor equity investment facility established under InvestEU.
In addition to the Chips for Europe Initiative, the second pillar of the European Chips Act will incentivise public and private investments in manufacturing facilities for chipmakers and their suppliers. This will contribute to the overall public investments in the sector estimated at €43 billion.
The second pillar of the European Chips Act will create a framework to ensure security of supply by attracting investments and enhancing production capacities in semiconductor manufacturing. To this end, it sets out a framework for Integrated Production Facilities and Open EU Foundries that are “first-of-a-kind” in the Union and contribute to the security of supply and to a resilient ecosystem in the Union interest.
In its third pillar, the European Chips Act will also establish a coordination mechanism between the Member States and the Commission for strengthening collaboration with and across Member States, monitoring the supply of semiconductors, estimating demand, anticipating shortages, and, if necessary, triggering the activation of a crisis stage. To address such situations, the European Chips Act establishes a dedicated toolbox of measures that can be undertaken.
Already now, since the proposal for a European Chips Act, together with the second Important Project of Common European Interest in microelectronics currently under assessment, which involves 20 Member States and dozens of participants, investment plans towards industrial deployment have reached €90 - 100 billion. The adoption of the European Chips Act will allow a faster realisation of those projects and further progress in attracting investment to secure Europe's supply chain in semiconductor.
Which is the next step?
The political agreement reached by the European Parliament and the Council is now subject to formal approval by the two co-legislators.
1.12.2022 - The Council has formalized its negotiating position.
It provides the Council presidency with a mandate for negotiations with the European Parliament, which will start as soon as the Parliament adopts its position.
The European Parliament’s Committee on Industry, Research and Energy (ITRE) appointed
Mr Dan NICA as rapporteur on the Chips Act proposal. The ITRE Committee is
expected to vote on its amendments to the Commission’s proposal and adopt the mandate for
negotiations in January 2023, with the negotiating mandate expected to be voted at Plenary in
February 2023.
The European Chips Act is built on three pillars:
1. Pillar 1: setting up the Chips for Europe Initiative to support technology capacity
building and large-scale innovation across the EU to enable the development and
deployment of cutting-edge and next generation semiconductor and quantum
technologies that will strengthen the EU’s capabilities and competences in advanced
design, systems integration and component production; more specifically, the Chips for
Europe Initiative includes five operational objectives related to: the development of
pilot lines, to test and experiment innovative process technology and design concepts;
the development of a design platform, to facilitate access to design resources; support to
quantum chips; the set-up of competence centres and the strengthening of skills, to
increase access and talent across the Union; and a Chips Fund, to support start-ups and
the scaling-up of SMEs;
2. Pillar 2: creating a framework to ensure security of supply by attracting increased
investment and production capacity in semiconductor manufacturing as well as in
packaging and advanced testing and assembly through first-of-a-kind integrated
production facilities and EU open foundries;
3. Pillar 3: establishing a mechanism for coordinating surveillance and crisis response
between Member States and the Commission to strengthen collaboration with and
between Member States, monitor the supply of semiconductors, estimate demand,
anticipate shortages, trigger the activation of a crisis phase and deploy a dedicated
toolbox.
11.5.2022, Commission Staff Working Document, A Chips Act for Europe
On 8 February 2022, the European Commission proposed a comprehensive set of measures for strengthening the EU’s semiconductor ecosystem, the European Chips Act.
In this package, the Commission has adopted a Communication, outlining the rationale and the overall strategy, a proposal for a Regulation for adoption by co-legislators, a proposal for amendments to a Council Regulation establishing the KDT Joint Undertaking, and a Recommendation to Member States promoting actions for monitoring and mitigating disruptions in the semiconductor supply chain.
To complement the proposed package, and as provided for in the Better Regulation rules for cases where
an Impact Assessment could not be prepared due to the urgency of an initiative, this Staff Working
Document (SWD) aims to explain why Europe needs to act now to address shortcomings in key chip
design and manufacturing competences and facilities to ensure its resilience against supply chain
disruptions.
This SWD also provides additional information concerning the rationale behind the
proposed measures in the 3 pillars which are the foundations of the proposal and explains further their
implementation.
This would not have been possible without providing a panoramic description of the
characteristics of the semiconductor value chain, key market and technology trends and opportunities,
given the complexity of the technological context and of the semiconductor ecosystem.
The SWD also intends to elucidate on the ongoing crisis and the pivotal role semiconductors have
acquired in the global context. Semiconductors are indeed at the centre of geopolitical interests.
Leading economies are keen to secure their supply in the most advanced chips with significant
investments, as this increasingly conditions their capacity to act economically, industrially, militarily, being the drivers of the digital transformation.
Unprecedented Global Semiconductor Shortages
Semiconductor supply chains are highly interconnected with
many actors across the globe and numerous choke points which can impact production. Over the past 2
years, Europe and other regions of the world have witnessed disruptions in the supply of chips, causing
shortages across multiple economic sectors with potentially serious societal and economic
consequences.
In a nutshell, the disruptions resulted from multiple factors, including the acceleration of digital
transformation in industry leading to an increased demand in a large number of semiconductor
components and devices; heightened demand for computers, electronics and technology products as
lockdowns related to the COVID-19 pandemic led to a surge in remote working, home schooling and
digital entertainment; COVID-19-related closures of key fabs; dislocations in global logistics and
transportation networks coupled with shortages of raw materials, key components and intermediary
products.
The shortage of chips has impacted downstream sectors such as automotive, energy, communications
and health, as well as defence, security and space, forcing delays in production and factory closures
across the world. The impact was severe and in the automotive sector, for instance, production in some
European Member States decreased by one third in 2021.
Why has the supply chain become so fragile?
Since the turn of the century, the semiconductor industry has responded to market difficulties through
consolidation and outsourcing to the Far East, particularly concerning production, and assembly and
testing. While this appears to have led to better utilisation of existing capacity, however it has
reduced available spare capacity. Thus, given the high capital expenditure and time required to set up
new manufacturing facilities, there appears to be limited possibility to increase production if demand
goes up considerably as it did from early 2020.
At the same time, the drive towards zero inventory approaches by some end user industries has led to a
situation where in case of a sudden increase in demand for chips, there is very limited available
inventory buffer to source from, until production can catch up. The result of this is a high susceptibility
across the supply chain to surges in demand. A key problem is that once demand exceeds supply it takes
at least 2-3 years to recover as there is a need for significant investment to increase capacity and
inventory with a resulting long lead time for components.
In recent years, geopolitical tensions have been simmering. China depends on US-origin technology
and imports of chips from Taiwan. With the “Made in China 2025” plan launched in 2015, China set
itself the ambition of reaching 70% autonomy in chip-making by 2025 and to this end earmarked USD
150 billion to build up semiconductor design and manufacturing capacity. The creation of this fund has
been linked to the growth in pace of cross-border acquisitions in the sector since 2015.
The U.S. government has responded to this “concerted push by China to reshape the market in its
favour”. In 2019, the US Department of Commerce broadened the application of its Export
Administration Rules (EAR) to curb the technological advance of certain Chinese companies by cutting
them off from critical US-origin technology. Because of Europe’s strong dependence on US-origin
technology for chip design however, these measures have impacted European chipmakers trading with
China.
The shortages over the past two years have exposed structural vulnerabilities in highly interdependent
and global value chains already weakened by lean production strategies and geopolitical frictions predating the pandemic. They have furthermore served to highlight Europe’s dependency on supply from
a limited number of companies and geographies.
Edge Computing
Today, 80% of data is processed in the cloud and this market is characterised by few US companies that
currently take 80% of the revenue. However, the trend is that the need for computing power at the edge
(close to or on the device where data is captured or generated) is growing much faster than the demand
for processing in the cloud. It is expected that in 5 years 80% of data processing will take place at the
edge reversing today’s balance. This represents a huge opportunity for Europe to gain a strong foothold
and be at the forefront of leadership in this market.
Already there is a proliferation of so-called edge devices, e.g., smart watches, smart meters, robots,
sensors and there are many potential applications, e.g., monitoring the elderly in their homes,
optimisation of renewal energy sources, tracking and optimising resource use in factories, optimising
pesticide and water use by farm machinery, etc. In all cases, data is collected and analysed locally, close
to the device or person in question. By keeping data local, edge computing provides benefits in terms
of privacy and reduces energy consumption as less data is sent to the cloud for remote processing.
Linkages between application domains, e.g., renewables with EV charging, are also possible to provide
further optimisation and generate new business cases.
Edge devices will get smarter and smarter as increasingly higher levels of computational power can be
embedded in a device. This will result in a paradigm shift and already there are examples such as
autonomous driving happening today with the trialling of ad hoc 5G networks along major highway
corridors.
In February 2020 the European Commission adopted the Data Strategy and new legislation
has been proposed. This naturally puts emphasis on sensors, peripheral equipment and computers used
in sectors such as transport, logistics, agriculture, etc.
It is clear that Europe has strengths in systems design for key industrial sectors such as manufacturing,
automotive, etc. The key differentiator in future will be in providing trusted hardware/software
platforms that can support the non-functional requirements of the application domains. This is an area
where Europe is a leader.
Increasing Security and Confidentiality Requirements
As the world has become more digitalised and interconnected, security has become a key requirement
for electronic devices from the point of view of safety, but also from the point of view of confidentiality.
Security has become a major topic across many sectors including automotive, industrial
automation, communications, healthcare, aerospace and defence. For industries such as automotive
or healthcare, a security breach can lead to physical injury and/or loss of customer confidence,
introducing concerns over liability.
With the introduction of GDPR in Europe personal data needs to be carefully processed. With home
working, people are using their own devices which may pose multiple cybersecurity challenges.
Devices which are used for both business and personal use may run outdated or pirated software that
hackers can exploit to access confidential and valuable business data. It is also easier to gain access to
a private network. The average cost of a data breach has increased from USD 3.86 million to USD 4.24
million during 2021, due to people working from home. Fewer than 3% of organisations protect their
employees’ mobile devices.
Cybersecurity challenges come in many forms, including ransomware, phishing attacks, malware
attacks, etc. Ransomware attacks target desktops, laptops, mobile phones and smart security devices.
The aim is to compromise sensitive user data in the device itself or render it unusable, or alternatively
use it as gateway to other devices for other malicious attacks. As cloud services are being increasingly
used for personal and professional data, they are subject to increasing attacks. In phishing attacks, user
data, such as login credentials and credit card numbers, is stolen. Here the aim is not to block access
but to exploit access.
At the chip level there are concerns about third-party IP or unknowns in the global supply chain that
may lead to “backdoors” in devices. General approaches currently used to boot securely and to
authenticate firmware are not sufficient when considering electronics deployed in cars, robots, drones,
servers and medical devices. There is a need for designed-in robust hardware security (see Figure 34)
considering different threats.
Designing active security into a device will impact complexity and power consumption - an issue for
battery powered devices. The added complexity may also add other vulnerabilities. With complex
designs making their way into automotive, medical and industrial applications, where they are expected
to be used for up to 25 years, security needs to be well architected and flexible enough to respond to
future security holes and more sophisticated attack vectors. There is a need to continually innovate
to guard against future new attacks.
Designing to reduce the risk of potential hardware breaches requires a solid understanding of a chip’s
architecture. This includes partitioning and prioritisation of data movement and data storage, as well as  obfuscation techniques and activity monitoring. As chipmakers utilise more customisation and
heterogeneity, this is becoming more difficult. The drive for scaling is also driving architects to package
components together. This presents challenges as not all components may be inherently secure and
many customised accelerators and IP blocks are provided as black boxes.
There is thus a need for ensuring that solutions can be fully audited and checked/verified (e.g. possibility
to look for back doors in open source IPs). Notably this is not possible for IPs licensed from 3rd parties.
Common Criteria security certifications for simple hardware IP such as smart cards24 exist, however,
for more complex processors, security is still in its infancy and it is not possible to buy a Common
Criteria certified general purpose multicore processor.
To get around this companies have to make liability limiting statements based on the hardware’s
documented interface. However, this may be insufficient as highlighted by the Spectre/Meltdown
vulnerabilities which appeared in 2018 which were unexpected for almost all OS vendors.
EU Member States agreed to “work towards common standards and, where appropriate, certification
for trusted electronics, as well as common requirements for procurement of secure chips and embedded
systems in applications that rely on or make extensive use of chip technology.” Reference
certification procedures for specific critical sectors and technologies with potential high social
impact are necessary. Certification of these chips for trust and security should cover the value chain
up to integration in end products and should be reflected in public procurement and promoted in
international standardisation activities.
The European Chips Act
According to the European Commission, semiconductor chips are the essential building blocks of digital and digitised products. From smartphones and cars, through critical applications and infrastructures for healthcare, energy, communications and industrial automation, chips are central to the modern digital economy. The COVID-19 pandemic has exposed a weakness in the eco-system within both Europe and other regions in the world experiencing significant shortages of chips. EU industries manufacture many types of high-tech products, of which chips are essential parts.
Europe must reinforce its capabilities in semiconductors to ensure future competitiveness and maintain its technological leadership and security of supply. The sector is both capital and knowledge intensive and chips supply chains are global, complex and currently rely on a few manufacturing sites.
Europe has many strengths and some weaknesses in the semiconductor value chain. The semiconductor sector is characterised by intense R&D activity, with first-class companies reinvesting more than 15% of their revenues into research in next generation technologies. The EU is home to world-leading research and technology organisations  and many excellent universities and research institutes spread across the Union. These are pioneering the techniques behind the production of some of the world's most advanced chips.
Moreover, Europe is very well positioned in terms of the materials and equipment needed to run large chip manufacturing plants, with many companies playing essential roles along the supply chain.
Despite these strengths, Europe has an overall global semiconductors production market share of less than 10% and is heavily dependent on third-country suppliers. In case of severe disruption of the global supply chain, Europe's chips' reserves in some industrial sectors (e.g. automotive or healthcare devices) could run out in a few weeks, bringing many European industries to a standstill.
As the digital transformation accelerates and penetrates every part of society, industrial needs for chips are set to increase, opening new market opportunities.
The Chips Act is a unique opportunity for Europe to act jointly across all Member States, to the benefit of the whole of Europe. However, the current chips shortage is a systematic issue with no quick fix.
In the short term, the toolbox set out in the Recommendation will immediately enable the coordination between the Member States and the Commission. This will allow to discuss and decide on timely and proportionate crisis response measures, if considered necessary.
In the medium term, the Chips Act will strengthen manufacturing activities in the Union and support the scale-up and innovation of the whole value chain, addressing security of supply and a more resilient ecosystem.
And, in the long-term, it will maintain Europe's technological leadership while preparing the required technological capabilities that would support transfer of knowledge from the lab to the fab and position Europe as a technology leader in innovative downstream markets.
08 February 2022 - European Chips Act: Communication, Regulation, Joint Undertaking and Recommendation.
Communication from the Commission: A Chips Act for Europe. You can find the document in English, German and French.
A Chips Act for Europe.
Ein Chip-Gesetz für Europa.
Action europeenne sur les semi-conducteurs.
08 February 2022 - Proposal for a Regulation establishing a framework of measures for strengthening Europe's semiconductor ecosystem (Chips Act).
Proposal for a Regulation (Chips Act).
Annexes.
Semiconductor chips are central to the digital economy. They make digital products work: from smartphones and cars, to critical applications and infrastructures in health, energy, communications and automation to most other industry sectors.
They are also key to the technologies of the future, including artificial intelligence (AI) and 5G/6G communication. There is no “digital” without chips.
Within the past year, Europe has witnessed disruptions in the supply of chips, causing shortages across multiple economic sectors and potentially serious societal consequences. Many European sectors, including automotive, energy, communication and health as well as strategic sectors such as defence, security, and space are under threat by such supply disruptions. At the same time, fake chips start appearing on the market, compromising the security of electronic devices and systems.
The current crisis has revealed structural vulnerabilities of the European value chains. The 
global semiconductor shortage has exposed European dependency on supply from a limited 
number of companies and geographies, and its vulnerability to third country export 
restrictions and other disruptions in the present geopolitical context. Furthermore, this 
dependency is exacerbated by the extremely high barriers to entry and capital intensity of the 
sector. For example, the most computationally powerful chips require manufacturing to a 
precision of a few nanometres (nm). Building such facilities entails an upfront investment of 
at least EUR 15 billion and requires three years to achieve production-readiness with 
adequate yields. The expenditures to design such chips can range from EUR 0.5 billion to 
well over EUR 1.0 billion. Research and development (R&D) intensity in the sector is high 
and more than 15%.
Today, European players invest mainly in R&D, but not enough in translating its results into 
industrial benefits. Such R&D is a key enabler of miniaturisation in semiconductor 
technologies required for the production of the next generation computationally powerful 
chips. Europe is home to world-leading research and technology organisations (RTOs). 
However, many results of European R&D are industrially deployed outside the Union.
The Union is strong in the design of semiconductor components for power electronics, radio 
frequency and analogue devices, sensors and microcontrollers that have a widespread use in 
the automotive and manufacturing industries today. It is less strong in the design of digital 
logic (processors and memory), which become essential as data, AI and connectivity become 
increasingly pervasive.
The European Chips Strategy is articulated around five strategic objectives:
- Europe should strengthen its research and technology leadership;
- Europe should build and reinforce its own capacity to innovate in the design, manufacturing and packaging of advanced chips, and turn them into commercial products;
- Europe should put in place an adequate framework to increase substantially its production capacity by 2030;
- Europe should address the acute skills shortage, attract new talent and support the 
emergence of a skilled workforce;
- Europe should develop an in-depth understanding of global semiconductor supply chains.
What is a semiconductor?
A semiconductor (or integrated circuit, microelectronic chip, or computer chip) is an electronic device generally smaller than a postage stamp, that is composed of billions of components that store, move, and process data.
All of these functions are based on the unique properties of semiconducting materials, such as silicon and germanium, which allow for the precise control of the flow of electrical current. Semiconductors give data storage and communication capabilities to mobile phones, gaming systems, aircraft avionics, industrial machinery, and military equipment and weapons. Hybrid electric automobiles contain as many as 3,500 semiconductors.
Semiconductor chips are fundamental to emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence, cloud computing, 5G, the Internet-of-Things (IoT), and large-scale data processing and analytics and supercomputing.
Semiconductors can be classified into four major product groups, mainly based on their function:
1. Microprocessors and logic devices are used for the interchange and manipulation of data in computers, communication devices, and consumer electronics. They perform a wide variety of tasks, such as running a word processing program or a video game.
2. Memory devices are used to store information. This segment includes dynamic random access memory (DRAM), a common and inexpensive type of memory used for the temporary storage of information in computers, smartphones, tablets, and flash memory, which retains data even when power is shut off.
3. Analog devices are used to translate analog signals, such as light, touch, and voice, into digital signals. For example, they are used to convert the analog sound of a musical performance into a digital recording stored online or on a compact disc.
4. Optoelectronics, sensors, and discretes (commonly referred to as O-S-D). Optoelectornics and sensors are mainly used for generating or sensing light, for example, in traffic lights or cameras.
Silicon is still the most widely used basic material on which semiconductors are fabricated. Five firms account for 90% of the world’s silicon wafer production; two Japanese firms, Shin-Etsu and Sumco, account for around 60%. Silicon wafers are manufactured in a number of countries around the world, including the United States, Japan, Taiwan, Malaysia, and the United Kingdom.
European-headquartered semiconductor firms
European-headquartered semiconductor firms accounted for about 10% (~$40 billion) of global semiconductor sales in 2019. Three firms based in the European Union — STMicroeletronics, Infineon Technologies, and NXP Semiconductors — ranked among the world’s top 15 semiconductor firms by sales in 2019.
European-headquartered semiconductor companies tend to specialize in niche markets, including the automotive industry, energy applications, and industrial automation; these firms do little production of computer- and consumer-related chips. Some European companies are considered strong in chip architecture, mobile telecommunications and industrial applications, and security chips (e.g., passports, IDs, and smartphones), a market dominated by NXP, Infineon, and STMicroelectronics. Europe’s share of global revenues for fabless firms is small (2%).
In May 2013, the European Commission (EC) announced an initiative aimed at increasing Europe’s share of global semiconductor manufacturing by providing $11.3 billion (€10 billion) in public and private funding for R&D activities in an effort to induce about $113 billion (€100 billion) in industry investment in manufacturing. The initiative called for a multipronged approach that included easing access to capital financing by qualified companies; pooling European Union (EU), national, and regional subsidies to enable larger-scale projects; and improving worker training.
The Commission’s goal was for European firms to account for 20% of global chip manufacturing by 2020. The years-long program may have helped prevent Europe’s market share in wafer fabrication from declining. European-based fabs accounted for 3% of global 300mm wafer fabrication production capacity in 2019, the same share as in 2015. Bosch and Infineon, among the most important suppliers of automotive semiconductors, are each constructing a new 300mm fab in Europe.
The European Commission and European governments continue to seek ways to bolster Europe’s microelectronics sector. A 2018 report, Rebooting Electronics Value Chains in Europe, prepared by Europe’s semiconductor companies for the Commission, recommended that the EU provide additional funds for public-private partnerships in microelectronics manufacturing and other electronics components and systems.
France, Germany, Italy, and the United Kingdom received Commission approval at the end of 2018 for a $2 billion (€1.7 billion) joint microelectronics project aimed at encouraging investments in internet-connected devices and connected car technologies; this effort is scheduled for completion by 2024. The Commission anticipates that this investment will stimulate roughly $6.7 billion (€6 billion) in private investment.
The shortage of semiconductors
The world is short of semiconductors. According to the European Commission, the shortage has very concrete consequences on the EU economy, jobs and even leisure. Carmakers postpone the production of vehicles. Broadband providers run out of Internet routers. Gamers cannot get their hands on next-gen consoles.
The situation might last for a while. Semiconductors are at the core of our world’s digitisation, but global supply is currently struggling to meet the explosion of demand driven by smartphones, Internet of Things and connected cars.
But it is not only about supply and demand. Semiconductors are at the centre of strong geostrategic interests, and at the core of the global technological race.
Superpowers are keen to secure their supply in the most advanced chips as they are well aware that it will condition their capacity to act (militarily, economically, industrially) and drive digital transformation.
Chips are a strategic component of any industrial chain. The race for the most advanced chips is a race about technological and industrial leadership.
The US are now discussing a massive investment under the American Chips Act designed to finance the creation of an American research centre and to help open up advanced production factories. The objective is clear: to increase the resilience of US semiconductor supply chains.
Taiwan is positioning itself to ensure its primacy on semiconductor manufacturing.
China, too, is trying to close the technological gap as it is constrained by export control rules to avoid technological transfers.
On 19 October 2021, the European Commission published its 2022 Work Programme with the key goals for 2022. Here we can read that the European Commission will publish a proposal for a European Chips Act in the first half of 2022.
Alliance on Processors and Semiconductor technologies
The Alliance brings together key actors to design and produce microelectronics chips.
The European Commission launched the European Alliance on Processors and Semiconductor technologies in July 2021. From smartphones to 5G to the Internet of Things and beyond, processors and semiconductor technologies are crucial for a successful Digital Decade.
The overall objective of the Alliance is to identify current gaps in the production of microchips and the technology developments needed for companies and organisations to thrive, no matter their size. This will help the competitiveness of companies, increase Europe’s digital sovereignty and address the demand for the next generation of secure, energy-efficient, powerful chips and processors.
The Alliance will enhance and foster collaboration across existing and future EU initiatives. It will help to provide the EU with the necessary capabilities in semiconductor technologies to power its critical digital infrastructure and communication networks. And, it will support a range of sectors and technologies, including automotive, industrial automation, healthcare and AI-enabled systems.
This translates in 2 main lines of actions, addressing the main gaps Europe is facing:
1. The reinforcement of the European electronics design ecosystem. This includes design at leading-edge nodes and open-source hardware solutions, which will help develop powerful and resource efficient processors.
2. The establishment of the necessary manufacturing capacity. This includes assembly testing and advanced packaging, by a mix of local and global players, to produce the next generation of trusted processors, electronic components and technologies. This will translate into a twin track to be developed in parallel: moving Europe towards producing technologies from 16 nanometres (nm)  to 10 nm, as well as from 5 nm to 2 nm and beyond. These most advanced type of semiconductors which, in addition to performance increases, have the potential to cut massively the energy used by everything from phones to data centres.
Any organisation with relevant existing or planned activities in the area of processor and semiconductor technologies, including end-user companies, associations, and research and technology organisations, can join the Alliance. They can do so by signing the Declaration and filling in the application form provided they meet the eligibility criteria set out in the Terms of Reference.
Semiconductors - the situation in the USA
According to the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA), the U.S. semiconductor industry employs over a quarter of a million workers and company sales totaled $208 billion in 2020. Advances in semiconductor technology have been, and continue to be, a linchpin of U.S. economic prosperity and national security.
But there is currently a global shortage of semiconductors due to several factors, including disruptions related to the COVID-19 pandemic and the increased use of semiconductors in cars. The industry is also facing the technical limits of conventional semiconductor materials. This portends the end of “Moore's Law,” which for more than 50 years has held that, thanks to miniaturization, the number of semiconductor devices called transistors that can be packed on a chip doubles about every two years.
There is also a supply chain problem. Americans invented semiconductors and lead the world in chip technology but provide only 12 percent of global semiconductor manufacturing capacity, according to the SIA. Most chip manufacturing occurs in Asia.
Moves are afoot to boost U.S. semiconductor manufacturing, research innovation and supply chain security. Advances in measurement science, standards, materials, instrumentation, testing, and manufacturing capabilities will be needed to help design, develop and manufacture next-generation microelectronics.
According to the US Congressional Research Service, semiconductors enable nearly all industrial activities, including systems that undergird U.S. technological competitiveness and national security.
Many policymakers see U.S.strength in semiconductor technology and fabrication as vital to U.S. economic and national security interests. The U.S. semiconductor industry dominates many parts of the semiconductor supply chain, such as chip design. Semiconductors are also a top U.S. export. Semiconductor design and manufacturing is a global enterprise with materials, design, fabrication, assembly, testing, and packaging operating across national borders.
Six U.S.-headquartered or foreign-owned semiconductor companies currently operate 20 fabrication facilities, or fabs, in the United States. In 2019, U.S.-based semiconductor manufacturing directly employed 184,600 workers at an average wage of $166,400.
Some U.S.-headquartered semiconductor firms that design and manufacture in the United States also have built fabrication facilities overseas. Similarly, U.S.- headquartered design firms that do not own or operate their own fabrication facilities contract with foreign firms located overseas to manufacture their designs. Much of this overseas capacity is in Taiwan, South Korea, and Japan, and increasingly in China. Some Members of Congress and other policymakers are concerned that only a small share of the world’s most advanced semiconductor fabrication production capacity is in the United States.
Other have become increasingly concerned about the concentration of production in East Asia and related
vulnerability of semiconductor supply chains in the event of a trade dispute or military conflict and other risks such as product tampering and intellectual property theft.
Some Members of Congress and other U.S. policymakers have expressed concerns about the economic and
military implications of a loss of U.S. leadership in semiconductors. China’s state-led efforts to develop an indigenous vertically integrated semiconductor industry are unprecedented in scope and scale. Many
policymakers are concerned that these efforts, if successful, could significantly shift global semiconductor production and related design and research capabilities to China, undermining U.S. and other foreign firms’ leading positions.
In October 2020, Ellen M. Lord, Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisitions and Sustainment, testified:
"Reduced U.S. capability in microelectronics is a particularly troublesome area for the [Defense Industrial Base]. Government incentives and low labor costs in foreign countries have been the main drivers for the migration of microelectronics manufacturing, packaging, and testing to off-shore suppliers. This strains our ability to acquire and sustain microelectronic components embedded in systems critical to national security and national defense. Reliance on non-U.S. suppliers for microelectronics leaves DOD vulnerable. The risks of this reality include: availability of microelectronics in case of embargo; loss of U.S. intellectual property from offshore dependency; and loss of confidence the technology will function as intended due to possible malicious activity by foreign fabricators."
Although China’s current share of the global industry is still relatively small and its companies
produce mostly low-end chips, China’s industrial policies aim to establish global dominance in semiconductor design and production by 2030. Moreover, Chinese semiconductor competencies could support a range of technology advancements, including military applications. Another issue for policymakers is how to address competing interests: China is an important market for U.S. semiconductor firms but U.S. and foreign industry are helping to advance China’s capabilities.
China’s government outlays (an estimated $150 billion to date) and its role as a central production point for global consumer electronics are generating strong incentives and pressures on U.S. and foreign firms to focus on China. The Chinese government views access to foreign capabilities in the near term as a key pathway to accelerate China’s indigenous development. Also of concern to many are China’s state-led efforts to acquire companies and access semiconductor technology through both licit and illicit means; targeted intellectual property (IP) theft; and technology-transfer pressures.
Issues before Congress include the appropriate role of government in assisting U.S. industry; how best to focus federal financial assistance; the amount of funding each proposed activity would need to accomplish its goals for sustaining U.S. semiconductor competitiveness; how to coordinate and integrate federal activities internally and with initiatives of the U.S. semiconductor and related industries; and how to address China’s ambitious industrial plans, trade practices of concern, and the role of U.S. firms in China’s emerging semiconductor market.
Legislation has been introduced in the 116th Congress to increase federal funding for semiconductor research and development efforts; collaboration between government, industry, and academic partners; and tax credits, grants, and other incentives to spur U.S. production. Two bills under consideration are the Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors (CHIPS) for America Act (S. 3933/H.R. 7178) and the American Foundries Act (AFA) of 2020 (S. 4130). Some of the provisions of these acts have been included in other bills.
Ursula von der Leyen, European Commission President, 2021 State of the Union address.
Digital is the make-or-break issue. And Member States share that view. Digital spending in NextGenerationEU will even overshoot the 20% target.
That reflects the importance of investing in our European tech sovereignty. We have to double down to shape our digital transformation according to our own rules and values.
Allow me to focus on semi-conductors, those tiny chips that make everything work: from smartphones and electric scooters to trains or entire smart factories.
There is no digital without chips. And while we speak, whole production lines are already working at reduced speed - despite growing demand - because of a shortage of semi-conductors.
But while global demand has exploded, Europe's share across the entire value chain, from design to manufacturing capacity has shrunk. We depend on state-of-the-art chips manufactured in Asia.
So this is not just a matter of our competitiveness. This is also a matter of tech sovereignty. So let's put all of our focus on it.
We will present a new European Chips Act. We need to link together our world-class research, design and testing capacities. We need to coordinate EU and national investment along the value chain.
The aim is to jointly create a state-of-the-art European chip ecosystem, including production. That ensures our security of supply and will develop new markets for ground-breaking European tech.
Yes, this is a daunting task. And I know that some claim it cannot be done.
But they said the same thing about Galileo 20 years ago.
And look what happened. We got our act together. Today European satellites provide the navigation system for more than 2 billion smartphones worldwide. We are world leaders. So let's be bold again, this time with semi-conductors.
This website is developed and maintained by Cyber Risk GmbH as part of its professional activities in the fields of risk management and regulatory compliance.
Cyber Risk GmbH specializes in supporting organizations in understanding, navigating, and implementing complex European, U.S., and international risk related regulatory frameworks.
Content is produced and maintained under the professional responsibility of George Lekatis, General Manager of Cyber Risk GmbH, a well known expert in risk management and compliance. He also serves as General Manager of Compliance LLC, a company incorporated in Wilmington, NC, with offices in Washington, DC, providing risk and compliance training in 58 countries.
Cyber Risk GmbH, some of our clients
	  
		  
		  
		  
       	  
		  	 




	
 

	


	
	
	
		  
	
	

			  


		  
	


	

		  
	
		

	
			  
		  

	
	

	
	
	
	
		
	
	
	



	

	

		
	
	



      
    
    
      var copy = document.querySelector(".logos-slide").cloneNode(true);
      document.querySelector(".logos").appendChild(copy);
$(document).ready(function() {
              var owl = $('.cliend-logo');
              owl.owlCarousel({
                margin: 20,
                nav: true,
                loop: true,
				autoplay:true,
    autoplayTimeout:4000,

                responsive: {
                  0: {
                    items: 1
                  },
                  600: {
                    items: 6
                  },
                  1000: {
                    items: 6
                  }
                }
              })
            })
			
		$(document).ready(function() {
              var owl = $('.testimonialstext');
              owl.owlCarousel({
                margin: 20,
                nav: true,
                loop: true,
				autoplay:true,
    autoplayTimeout:4000,

                responsive: {
                  0: {
                    items: 1
                  },
                  600: {
                    items: 1
                  },
                  1000: {
                    items: 1
                  }
                }
              })
            })
$(window).scroll(function() {
  if ($(document).scrollTop() > 50) {
    $('nav').addClass('shrink');
    $('.add').hide();
  } else {
    $('nav').removeClass('shrink');
    $('.add').show();
    
  }
});


