Title: Gene Editing - CRISPR Therapeutics
**Definition:** The scientific understanding of how specific genes are involved in disease is advancing rapidly, offering the opportunity to use gene editing technologies to disrupt or correct disease-related genes.

**Key Points:** Gene Editing
 
 
 

 
 
 
 CRISPR/Cas9 – a revolutionary gene-editing technology that can be used to modify or correct precise regions of our DNA to treat serious diseases
Dr. CORRECT OR INSERT

Adding a genetic template alongside the CRISPR/Cas9 machinery can enable the cell to correct a gene or insert a new gene. We are applying gene editing to treat disease in two primary ways:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Genetic diseases: Targeting specific genes that cause or influence the course of a disease
Many diseases, both rare and common, have a genetic basis.

## CRISPR/Cas9 – a revolutionary gene-editing technology that can be used to modify or correct precis
Dr. Emmanuelle Charpentier, one of our scientific founders, co-invented CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing. She and her collaborator, Dr. Jennifer Doudna, won a Nobel Prize for this groundbreaking work. As a gene-editing tool, CRISPR/Cas9 has revolutionized biomedical research and enabled medical breakthroughs.CRISPR/Cas9 edits genes by precisely cutting DNA and then harnessing natural DNA repair processes to modify the gene in the desired manner. The system has two components: the Cas9 enzyme and a guide RNA.


## CRISPR Lexicon
CRISPR: “Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats” of genetic information that some bacteria use as part of an antiviral system and that Dr. Charpentier and others discovered how to use as a gene-editing toolCas9: a CRISPR-associated (Cas) endonuclease, or enzyme, that acts as “molecular scissors” to cut DNA at a location specified by a guide RNAGuide RNA (gRNA): a type of ribonucleic acid (RNA) molecule that binds to Cas9 and specifies, based on the sequence of the gRNA, the location at which Cas9 will cut DNA
A variety of genetic edits can be performed with CRISPR/Cas9, including:




---

Title: What is CRISPR: Your Ultimate Guide | Synthego
**Definition:** CRISPR is important because it allows scientists to rewrite the genetic code in almost any organism.

**Key Points:** The History and Discovery Of CRISPR
Today, CRISPR is well-known as a precise gene editing tool, but it took many years for scientists to figure out what it was and how to harness its potential. Base editing & prime editing
Some of the most recently developed CRISPR methods are base editing and prime editing. Accubase™ Cytosine Base Editor in Research-grade and GMP for your CRISPR base editing therapeutic
Prime editing offers unmatched precision for small insertions, deletions, and all 12 possible base conversions, surpassing the limitations of traditional CRISPR and base editing.

| Base Editing | Prime Editing | 
| Substitution mutations Reliable, predict | Insertion and deletion mutations Low err | 


## CRISPR gene knockout
If Cas9 creates a DSB, it will most likely be repaired by NHEJ. However, NHEJ is error-prone, and it usually results in insertions and deletions (indels) in the region being repaired. When indels occur within the coding region of a gene and result in a frameshift mutation, the gene becomes non-functional. This is known as a gene knockout (KO).
Gene knockouts are used in a range of research areas, including functional genomics, pathway analysis, drug discovery and screening, and disease modeling. Using multiple guide RNAs that target various regions of the gene ensures high efficiency gene knockout, a method that is gaining popularity.


## Developments in CRISPR biology and genome editing using CRISPR
1. Chemically modified guide RNAs enhance CRISPR-Cas13 knockdown in human cells
This recent study performed Cas13-based RNA editing on human cells, partnering with Synthego to experiment with different types of chemical modifications to the guide RNAs to determine which could provide superior knockdown efficiencies.
2. High-fidelity CRISPR-Cas9 nucleases with no detectable genome-wide off-target effects
In an effort to reduce off-target edits, this study engineered a high-fidelity Cas9 variant, SpCas9-HF1. The novel nuclease retained all the on-target efficiency of wild-type Cas9 with no detectable off-target edits.
3. Programmable editing of a target base in genomic DNA without double-stranded DNA cleavage
David R Liu and his team at Harvard demonstrated the first use of CRISPR as a base editor, substituting one base for another using a Cas9 nickase and without creating DSBs.
4. Epigenome editing by a CRISPR-Cas9-based acetyltransferase activates genes from promoters and enhancers
This 2015 paper demonstrates the use of CRISPR as an epigenome editing tool. By fusing dCas9 to the human acetyltransferase p300, the authors generated highly specific edits, activating genes of interest.


## CRISPRa & CRISPRi
CRISPR-Cas9 can be used to delete (KO) or insert (KI) genes, but with slight modifications, it can also be used to regulate the expression of genes. This is known as CRISPR activation (CRISPRa) and CRISPR interference (CRISPRi). CRISPRa is used to increase (upregulate) the expression of a gene, while CRISPRi can reduce (downregulate) the expression of a gene.
Both of these technologies function by fusing an engineered variant of Cas9 known as catalytically dead Cas9 (dCas9) with transcriptional effectors to modulate target gene expression. dCas9 cannot cut the DNA, and so it simply leads the transcriptional effectors to the gene of interest.
These gene modulators have many research applications, including developmental biology, infectious disease, disease progression, functional genomics, and screening for genetic elements that mediate drug resistance.


## Analyzing your CRISPR experiment
The last step in evaluating your experiment is picking an analytics tool to confirm that editing was successful. Like every other step, this must be tailored to the experiment. The gold standard is to use Next Generation sequencing (NGS), however this is not always in every lab's budget, especially if you need to sequence frequently or have many samples to run.
Synthego's Inference of CRISPR Edits  (ICE) is an online tool for analyzing Sanger sequencing data, which is cheaper than NGS. ICE is user friendly, open-source, and highly accurate, with results comparable to NGS.


## History of CRISPR
While Doudna and Charpentier were the first to adapt CRISPR-Cas9 as a gene editing tool, the history goes back a little further than their 2012 publication. In 1993, Dr. Fransisco Mojica, a scientist at the University of Alicante in Spain, identified repetitive palindromic segments of DNA interspaced with other fragments of genetic material in bacterial genomes. Dr. Mojica gave these regions the name CRISPR, and proposed that they are a component of the bacterial immune system. In 2007, a team of scientists led by Dr. Philippe Horvath experimentally demonstrated Mojica’s theory.
Since its adaptation by Dr. Doudna and Dr. Charpentier, this versatile gene editing technology has progressed rapidly. It has been adapted for many different purposes, including RNA editing, base and prime editing, live imaging, and diagnostics. It has been used to edit DNA in a variety of organisms, including humans.
In 2019, the first CRISPR clinical trials began, harvesting cells from patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) and editing them in vitro before infusing them back into the body - a method known as cell therapy. After the success of SCD cell therapy trials, a CRISPR treatment was injected directly into human patients for the first time in 2020. This technique is known as gene therapy, and was used to treat hereditary blindness.
Free CRISPR Consultation
Want to know how to optimize your CRISPR experiment to get guaranteed editing results? Schedule a free discovery call and project consultation with a genome engineering expert.
                                        
                        Schedule a Meeting


## Free CRISPR Consultation
Want to know how to optimize your CRISPR experiment to get guaranteed editing results? Schedule a free discovery call and project consultation with a genome engineering expert.
Schedule a Meeting


## The History and Discovery Of CRISPR
Today, CRISPR is well-known as a precise gene editing tool, but it took many years for scientists to figure out what it was and how to harness its potential. Let’s discuss the inventors of this gene editing tool, the scientists who championed this technology, and the history behind these breakthroughs.


## CRISPR knock-in
In the presence of a DSB induced by Cas9, cells can also repair themselves via HDR, and this pathway offers an opportunity for researchers to insert a new piece of DNA or an entire gene. This method is known as a gene knock-in.
To achieve a gene knock-in, there must be a DNA template for repair known as a donor template. This donor template consists of the sequence or gene of interest flanked by regions of homology that match the area on either side of the cut. The donor is delivered to the cells being engineered, along with the other editing components of Cas9 and sgRNA.
Gene knock-ins have been a key breakthrough in biotechnology, including the production of recombinant proteins, increasing the viability of immortalized cell lines, and precision disease modeling. Perhaps most importantly, CRISPR knock-in can be used in cell and gene therapies to correct genetic mutations that cause human disease.
Compared with gene knockout, gene knock-ins are more challenging. This is because HDR is a less common repair pathway than NHEJ, only occurring at certain stages of the cell cycle.The low frequency of HDR typically results in low knock-in efficiencies. However, scientists have been creating methods to overcome this obstacle, including detailed experimental optimization, cell cycle synchronization, and treatments that either boost HDR or disable NHEJ for knock-in experiments.


## What Is CRISPR: The Ultimate Guide To CRISPR Mechanisms, Applications, Methods & More
“The power to control our species’ genetic future is awesome and terrifying. Deciding how to handle it may be the biggest challenge we have ever faced.”
― Jennifer A. Doudna


## CRISPR screens
Workflow of a typical arrayed CRISPR screen, performed in multiwell plate formatCRISPR-Cas9 technology has enabled highly accurate, large-scale screening studies for drug discovery research, allowing us to more easily unravel the relationships between genotype and phenotype. CRISPR screens typically involve generating a large sgRNA library targeting different genes, making a wide range of edits to a particular cell line, then analyzing the effects of the edits on the phenotype of the cells.
By performing knockouts of multiple genes in a healthy cell line, researchers are able to identify which genes are involved in disease pathogenesis, while the same method in a diseased cell line can identify which genes are ideal targets for drugs. CRISPR screens provide more consistent results with less off-target effects than the RNAi screens that were previously employed for drug discovery. The multi-guide sgRNA knockout approach used by Synthego makes these screens even more reliable for target identification and validation.


## Base editing & prime editing
Some of the most recently developed CRISPR methods are base editing and  prime editing. These technologies work on the same principle, however at a more precise scale, inducing single nucleotide substitutions. Importantly, base editing and prime editing do not induce DSBs in the target DNA.
Unlike traditional CRISPR-Cas9 editing methods that introduce double-strand breaks, base editors enable targeted single-base conversions, reducing risks like insertions or deletions (indels) and chromosomal rearrangements. By chemically modifying DNA bases without cutting, base editing provides a safer and more efficient tool for addressing a wide range of genetic diseases. The base editor system consists of a deaminase enzyme fused to a modified Cas9 variant, such as a nickase (nCas9) where one catalytic site is active or a catalytically inactive Cas9 (dCas9), which is guided to the target site by a base editing gRNA. Once the deaminase removes the amino group (-NH2) from the target base, subsequent DNA replication or repair ensures the desired base change, making this approach highly specific and effective for correcting SNVs and generating stop codons that result in precise gene knockouts.
Two key types of base editors are cytosine base editors (CBEs) and adenine base editors (ABEs), each targeting different base pair conversions. These editors have demonstrated high efficiency in correcting disease-causing single nucleotide mutations (SNVs) such as those in genes linked to monogenic disorders. Despite their promise, challenges like off-target effects, varying efficiencies, and the need for advanced delivery systems remain areas of active research. With ongoing innovation, base editors are becoming indispensable tools in the development of cell and gene therapies, enabling precision medicine to address previously untreatable genetic diseases.
Learn more about Base Editing mechanisms and clinical trials.


## 1. Cell and gene therapies
CRISPR is poised to revolutionize medicine, with the potential to cure a range of genetic diseases, including neurodegenerative disease, blood disorders, cancer, and ocular disorders. As we mentioned earlier, the first trial of a CRISPR cell therapy was performed in 2019, treating patients with sickle cell disease. The treatment restored fetal hemoglobin, eliminating the need for a functional copy of adult hemoglobin.
In 2021, a significant CRISPR trial for transthyretin amyloidosis, a neurodegenerative disease, showed very promising results. It is also revolutionizing pediatric cancer treatment, described in this podcast interview with Shondra Miller from St Jude’s.
CRISPR can also be used to generate chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, a form of immunotherapy used to treat cancer. The T cells are extracted from patients and engineered to express chimeric antigen receptors before being re-injected into the body. The receptors allow the T cells to more efficiently target and destroy the specific type of cancer the patient suffers from.
While we are still in the early years of clinical trials, this technology could be used to treat thousands of genetic conditions in the future, including breast and ovarian cancer linked to BRCA mutations, Huntington’s disease, Tay-Sachs, beta-thalassemia, cystic fibrosis, and early-onset Alzheimer’s. For all the latest medical developments and clinical trials using this technology to cure a range of human diseases, you can take a look at the CRISPR Medicine News website.


## Learn More About CRISPR Methods
FLYERS
                                        
                                                                    
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            RPA Assay Execution and Optimization Checklist                                        

                                                                                    This comprehensive guide streamlines the workflow for Synthego RPA and RT-RPA kits, providing researchers with a standardized roadmap for both DNA and RNA amplification. It covers the entire process from...
                                                                            
                                
                            
                                                        
                                                                    
                                                                            
                                            PROTOCOLS
                                        
                                                                    
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            SpCas9 nuclease mRNA and gRNA User Guide                                        

                                                                                    mRNA format This User Guide covers important guidelines for storage, preparation, and getting started with our SpCas9 nuclease mRNA and gRNA.
                                                                            
                                
                            
                                                        
                                                                    
                                                                            
                                            PROTOCOLS
                                        
                                                                    
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            hfCas12Max nuclease mRNA and gRNA User Guide                                        

                                                                                    mRNA format This User Guide covers important guidelines for storage, preparation, and getting started with our hfCas12Max nuclease mRNA and gRNA.


## CRISPR 101 eBook
CRISPR has quickly become a standard laboratory tool for gene editing. As the adoption of CRISPR accelerates worldwide, up-to-date knowledge of the basics of CRISPR is essential for anyone in the field. From target identification studies to the recent breakthroughs in clinical trials, CRISPR is enabling scientists to unlock the power of the genome.
Download our CRISPR 101 eBook today to stay up to date on all your CRISPR basics and get the best results in your CRISPR experiments!
Download


## Breakthroughs in CRISPR Applications
5. Comparative host-coronavirus protein interaction networks reveal pan-viral disease mechanisms
This 2020 paper published in Science performed knockout screens in the human Caco-2 cell line, examining the effects of KO on the ability of SARS-CoV-2 to infect human cells. Using this method, the authors were able to identify potential targets for treatment of Covid-19.
6. Safety and feasibility of CRISPR-edited T cells in patients with refractory non-small-cell-lung cancer
Published in Nature Medicine, this study was a breakthrough in T cell immunotherapy. By disrupting the programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) gene, Tony Mok and his team were able to improve the efficacy of T cell therapy in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
7. In Vivo Targeting of Clostridioides difficile Using Phage-Delivered CRISPR-Cas3 Antimicrobials
By engineering bacteriophage (crPhage) to express Cas3, the authors of this study were able to target and kill pathogenic bacteria by deleting large regions of their DNA. This strategy is suggested as an alternative approach to combat the rise of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
We hope this guide has helped you gain a better understanding of CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing, how it can be used, and the wider implications of this technology. With its rapid adoption in laboratories across the globe and an ever-increasing range of applications, CRISPR has certainly revolutionized science, from basic research to medical biotechnology. For a more in-depth guide, you can check out our downloadable CRISPR 101 ebook, or to start using this technology in your research, you can book an appointment with one of our genome engineering specialists.


## CRISPR Protocols: Learn How To Use CRISPR
Now that you're more familiar with the basics of CRISPR and its applications, you're probably curious about how to use it in your own research. In this section, we'll take you through the main steps of designing your own experiment. A more detailed chapter-by-chapter guide for designing your gene editing experiment is also available.


## Who discovered CRISPR?
Image credit: New York TimesCRISPR was discovered by Dr. Jennifer Doudna (UC Berkeley, seen on right in image above) and Dr. Emmanuelle Charpentier (Max Planck Unit for the Science of Pathogens, Berlin, left). Their groundbreaking paper, revealing that the CRISPR-Cas9 bacterial immune system could be repurposed as a gene editing tool, was published in the journal Science in 2012.
It wasn’t until 2020 – well after it had been adopted in labs around the world – that Doudna and Charpentier won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their discovery, becoming the first all-female team to do so.
Other significant contributors include Feng Zhang at the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard in Cambridge, Massachusetts, who pioneered the use of CRISPR in eukaryotic cells and discovered novel Cas variants, George Church at Harvard Medical School in Boston, Massachusetts, who was among the first to demonstrate its use in human cells, and biochemist Virginijus Siksnys at Vilnius University in Lithuania, who independently discovered the ability of CRISPR to edit genes in other organisms. For more information on these early pioneers, you can check out our blog about prominent CRISPR scientists.


## The Future Of CRISPR
There can be no doubt that CRISPR-Cas9 has revolutionized the field of genome engineering. However, we’re only just beginning to see the benefits and possibilities of this incredible technology - with a variety of successful preclinical studies and more clinical trials being approved, the dream of curing human disease by editing our DNA is now very real.
There are also an increasing number of biotech startup companies focusing on CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing technology, and many researchers are continually finding new ways of applying this technology to solve real-world problems, including epigenome editing, new cell and gene therapies, infectious disease research, and for the conservation of endangered species.
7 Prominent CRISPR Publications


CRISPR has been widely adopted by researchers around the world, resulting in thousands of publications. In this section, we’ll explore some exciting papers that utilize this technology, including a few significant breakthroughs.
Developments in CRISPR biology and genome editing using CRISPR
1. Chemically modified guide RNAs enhance CRISPR-Cas13 knockdown in human cells
This recent study performed Cas13-based RNA editing on human cells, partnering with Synthego to experiment with different types of chemical modifications to the guide RNAs to determine which could provide superior knockdown efficiencies.
2. High-fidelity CRISPR-Cas9 nucleases with no detectable genome-wide off-target effects
In an effort to reduce off-target edits, this study engineered a high-fidelity Cas9 variant, SpCas9-HF1. The novel nuclease retained all the on-target efficiency of wild-type Cas9 with no detectable off-target edits.
3. Programmable editing of a target base in genomic DNA without double-stranded DNA cleavage
David R Liu and his team at Harvard demonstrated the first use of CRISPR as a base editor, substituting one base for another using a Cas9 nickase and without creating DSBs.
4. Epigenome editing by a CRISPR-Cas9-based acetyltransferase activates genes from promoters and enhancers
This 2015 paper demonstrates the use of CRISPR as an epigenome editing tool. By fusing dCas9 to the human acetyltransferase p300, the authors generated highly specific edits, activating genes of interest.
Breakthroughs in CRISPR Applications
5. Comparative host-coronavirus protein interaction networks reveal pan-viral disease mechanisms
This 2020 paper published in Science performed knockout screens in the human Caco-2 cell line, examining the effects of KO on the ability of SARS-CoV-2 to infect human cells. Using this method, the authors were able to identify potential targets for treatment of Covid-19.
6. Safety and feasibility of CRISPR-edited T cells in patients with refractory non-small-cell-lung cancer
Published in Nature Medicine, this study was a breakthrough in T cell immunotherapy. By disrupting the programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) gene, Tony Mok and his team were able to improve the efficacy of T cell therapy in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
7. In Vivo Targeting of Clostridioides difficile Using Phage-Delivered CRISPR-Cas3 Antimicrobials
By engineering bacteriophage (crPhage) to express Cas3, the authors of this study were able to target and kill pathogenic bacteria by deleting large regions of their DNA. This strategy is suggested as an alternative approach to combat the rise of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
We hope this guide has helped you gain a better understanding of CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing, how it can be used, and the wider implications of this technology. With its rapid adoption in laboratories across the globe and an ever-increasing range of applications, CRISPR has certainly revolutionized science, from basic research to medical biotechnology. For a more in-depth guide, you can check out our downloadable CRISPR 101 ebook, or to start using this technology in your research, you can book an appointment with one of our genome engineering specialists.
CRISPR 101 eBook
CRISPR has quickly become a standard laboratory tool for gene editing. As the adoption of CRISPR accelerates worldwide, up-to-date knowledge of the basics of CRISPR is essential for anyone in the field. From target identification studies to the recent breakthroughs in clinical trials, CRISPR is enabling scientists to unlock the power of the genome.
Download our CRISPR 101 eBook today to stay up to date on all your CRISPR basics and get the best results in your CRISPR experiments!
                                        
                        Download
                    
                



                Download eBook


## What Is CRISPR and Why Is It Important?
CRISPR stands for Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats. It is a component of bacterial immune systems that can cut DNA, and has been repurposed as a gene editing tool. It acts as a precise pair of molecular scissors that can cut a target DNA sequence, directed by a customizable guide.
The system is made up of two key parts: a CRISPR-associated (Cas) nuclease, which binds and cuts DNA, and a guide RNA sequence (gRNA), which directs the Cas nuclease to its target. It was discovered in bacterial immune systems, where it cuts the DNA of invading viruses, called bacteriophage, and disables them. Once the molecular mechanism for its DNA-cleaving ability was discovered, it was quickly developed as a tool for editing genomes.
CRISPR is important because it allows scientists to rewrite the genetic code in almost any organism.
It is simpler, cheaper, and more precise than previous gene editing techniques. Moreover, it has a range of real-world applications, including curing genetic disease and creating drought-resistant crops.


## CRISPR animal models
Traditional animal models of human disease are useful, but they have several limitations, including a lack of translational capacity. With CRISPR, however, creating transgenic animals that more accurately recapitulate human disease states has become significantly easier. CRISPR editing in animals is much more efficient than previous genome engineering technologies - it can generate almost any required edit, as well as having the capacity to generate multiple edits within the same organism.
CRISPR can be used to generate 'humanization knock-ins' in animals like mice - deleting a particular gene or region of DNA in the animal and replacing it with the human version. This level of accuracy is key to understanding and treating human disease. For example, gene-edited animal models of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy have recently led to significant breakthroughs in treating this disease, including the development of a potential gene therapy, experimentally demonstrated in dogs. It has also been used to create large animal models of neurodegenerative disorders which may lead to clinical trials in the near future.




---

Title: Mechanism and Applications of CRISPR/Cas-9-Mediated ...
**Definition:** This work is published and licensed by Dove Medical Press Limited.

**Key Points:** CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing for sickle cell disease and β-thalassemia. Prime editing: genome editing for rare genetic diseases without double-strand breaks or donor DNA. Applications of the CRISPR/Cas system beyond gene editing.

## Mechanisms of CRISPR/CAS-9 Genome Editing
The mechanism of CRISPR/Cas-9 genome editing can be generally divided into three steps: recognition, cleavage, and repair.13 The designed sgRNA directs Cas-9 and recognizes the target sequence in the gene of interest through its 5ʹcrRNA complementary base pair component. The Cas-9 protein remains inactive in the absence of sgRNA. The Cas-9 nuclease makes double-stranded breaks (DSBs) at a site 3 base pair upstream to PAM.14 PAM sequence is a short (2–5 base-pair length) conserved DNA sequence downstream to the cut site and its size varies depending on the bacterial species. The most commonly used nuclease in the genome-editing tool, Cas-9 protein recognizes the PAM sequence at 5ʹ-NGG-3ʹ (N can be any nucleotide base). Once Cas-9 has found a target site with the appropriate PAM, it triggers local DNA melting followed by the formation of RNA-DNA hybrid, but the mechanism of how Cas-9 enzyme melts target DNA sequence was not clearly understood yet. Then, the Cas-9 protein is activated for DNA cleavage. HNH domain cleaves the complementary strand, while the RuvC domain cleaves the non-complementary strand of target DNA to produce predominantly blunt-ended DSBs. Finally, the DSB is repaired by the host cellular machinery.11,15
Double-Stranded Break Repair Mechanisms
Non-homologous end joining (NHEJ), and homology-directed repair (HDR) pathways are the two mechanisms to repair DSBs created by Cas-9 protein in CRISPR/Cas-9 mechanism.16 NHEJ facilitates the repair of DSBs by joining DNA fragments through an enzymatic process in the absence of exogenous homologous DNA and is active in all phases of the cell cycle. It is the predominant and efficient cellular repair mechanism that is most active in the cells, but it is an error-prone mechanism that may result in small random insertion or deletion (indels) at the cleavage site leading to the generation of frameshift mutation or premature stop codon.17 HDR is highly precise and requires the use of a homologous DNA template. It is most active in the late S and G2 phases of the cell cycle. In CRISPR-gene editing, HDR requires a large amount of donor (exogenous) DNA templates containing a sequence of interest. HDR executes the precise gene insertion or replacement by adding a donor DNA template with sequence homology at the predicted DSB site.16,17


## Applications of CRISPR/CAS-9
In just a few years of its discovery, the CRISPR/Cas-9 genome editing tool has already being explored for a wide number of applications and had a massive impact on the world in many areas including medicine, agriculture, and biotechnology. In the future, researchers hope that this technology will continue to advance for treating and curing diseases, develop more nutritious crops, and eradicating infectious diseases.18 Highlights for some of the recent CRISPR/Cas-9 applications and clinical trials being investigated are discussed below.
Role in Gene Therapy
More than 6000 genetic disorders have been known so far. But the majority of the diseases lack effective treatment strategies.19 Gene therapy is the process of replacing the defective gene with exogenous DNA and editing the mutated gene at its native location. It is the latest development in the revolution of medical biotechnology. From 1998 to August 2019, 22 gene therapies including the novel CRISPR/Cas-9 have been approved for the treatment of human diseases.20
Since its discovery in 2012, CRISPR/Cas-9 gene editing has held the promise of curing most of the known genetic diseases such as sickle cell disease, β-thalassemia, cystic fibrosis, and muscular dystrophy.21,22 CRISPR/Cas-9 for targeted sickle cell disease (SCD) therapy and β-thalassemia have been also applied in clinical trials.23 SCD is an autosomal recessive genetic disease of red blood cells, which occurs due to point mutation in the β-globin chain of hemoglobin leading to sickle hemoglobin (HbS). During the deoxygenation process, HbS polymerization leads to severe clinical complications like hemolytic anemia.24 Either direct repairing the gene of hemoglobin S or boosting fetal γ-globin are the two main approaches that CRISPR/Cas-9 is being used to treat SCD.25 However, the most common method used in a clinical trial is based on the approach of boosting fetal hemoglobin. First bone marrow cells are removed from patients and the gene that turns off fetal hemoglobin production, called B-cell Lymphoma 11A (BCL11A) is disabled with CRISPR/Cas-9. Then, the gene-edited cells are infused back into the body.26 BCL11A is a 200 base pair gene found on chromosome 2 and its product is responsible to switch γ-globin into the β-globin chain by repressing γ-globin gene expression.27 Once this gene is disabled using CRISPR/Cas-9, the production of fetal hemoglobin containing γ-globin in the red blood cells will increase, thereby alleviating the severity and manifestations of SCD.28
Scientists have been also investigating CRISPR/Cas-9 for the treatment of cystic fibrosis. The genetic mutation of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene decreases the structural stability and function of CFTR protein leading to cystic fibrosis.29 CFTR protein is an anion channel protein regulated by protein kinase-A, located at the apical surface of epithelial cells of the lung, intestine, pancreas, and reproductive tract.30 Although there is no cure for cystic fibrosis, symptom-based therapies (such as antibiotics, bronchodilators, and mucus thinning medications) and CFTR modulating drugs have become the first-line treatments to relieve symptoms and reduce the risk of complications.31 Currently, gene manipulation technologies and molecular targets are also being explored. The use of CRISPR/Cas-9 technology for genome editing has great potential, although it is in the early stages of development.32 In 2013, researchers culture intestinal stem cells from two cystic fibrosis patients and corrected the mutation at the CFTR locus resulting in the expression of the correct gene and full function of the protein. Since then, the potential utility of the application of CRISPR/Cas-9 for cystic fibrosis was established.33 Furthermore, Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), which is caused by a mutation in the dystrophin gene and characterized by muscle weakness, has been successfully corrected by CRISPR/Cas-9 in patient-induced pluripotent stem cells.34 Despite considerable efforts, the treatment available for DMD remains supportive rather than curative. Currently, several therapeutic approaches (gene therapy, cell therapy, and exon skipping) have been investigated to restore the expression of dystrophin in DMD muscles.35,36 Deletion/excision of intragenic DNA and removing the duplicated exon by CRISPR/Cas-9 are the new and promising approaches in correcting the DMD gene, which restores the expression of dystrophin protein.37
Moreover, the latest researches show that the CRISPR/Cas-mediated single-base editing and prime editing systems can directly install mutations in cellular DNA without the need for a donor template. The CRISPR/Cas-base editor and prime editor system do not produce DSB, which reduces the possibility of indels that are different from conventional Cas-9.38 So far, two types of base editors have been developed: cytosine base editor (CBE) and adenine base editor (ABE).39 The CBE is a type of base editor composed of cytidine deaminase fused with catalytically deficient or dead Cas-9 (dCas-9). It is one of the novel gene therapy strategies that can produce precise base changes from cytidine (C) to thymidine (T).40 However, the target range of the CBE base editor is still restricted by PAM sequences containing G, T, or A bases. Recently, a more advanced fidelity and efficiency base editor called nNme2-CBE (discovered from Neisseria meningitides) with expanded PAM compatibility for cytidine dinucleotide has been developed in both human cells and rabbits embryos.41 The ABE uses adenosine deaminase fused to dCas-9 to correct the base-pair change from adenosine (A) to guanosine (G).38 Overall, single-base editing through the fusion of dCas-9 to cytidine deaminase or adenosine deaminase is a safe and efficient method to edit point mutations. But both base editors can only fix four-transition mutations (purine to purine or pyrimidine to pyrimidine).42 To overcome this shortcoming, the most recent member of the CRISPR genome editing toolkit called Prime Editor (PE) has been developed to extend the scope of DNA editing beyond the four types of transition mutations.43 PE contains Cas-9 nickase fused with engineered reverse transcriptase and multifunctional primer editing guide RNA (pegRNA). The pegRNA recognizes the target nucleotide sequence; the Cas-9 nickase cuts the non-complementary strand of DNA three bases upstream from the PAM site, exposing a 3ʹ-OH nick of genomic DNA. The reverse transcriptase then extends the 3ʹ nick by copying the edit sequence of pegRNA. Hence, PE not only corrects all 12 possible base-to-base transitions, and transversion mutations but also small insertion and deletion mutations in genetic disorders.44
Therapeutic Role of CRISPR/Cas-9
The first CRISPR-based therapy in the human trial was conducted to treat patients with refractory lung cancer. Researchers first extract T-cells from three patient’s blood and they engineered them in the lab through CRISPR/Cas-9 to delete genes (TRAC, TRBC, and PD-1) that would interfere to fight cancer cells. Then, they infused the modified T-cells back into the patients. The modified T-cells can target specific antigens and kill cancer cells. Finally, no side effects were observed and engineered T-cells can be detected up to 9 months of post-infusion.45 CRISPR/Cas-9 gene-editing technology could also be used to treat infectious diseases caused by microorganisms.46 One focus area for the researchers is treating HIV, the virus that leads to AIDS. In May 2017, a team of researchers from Temple University demonstrated that HIV-1 replication can be completely shut down and the virus eliminated from infected cells through excision of HIV-1 genome using CRISPR/Cas-9 in animal models.47 In addition to the approach of targeting the HIV-genome, CRISPR/Cas-9 technology can also be used to block HIV entry into host cells by editing chemokine co-receptor type-5 (CCR5) genes in the host cells. For instance, an in vitro trial conducted in China reported that genome editing of CCR5 by CRISPR/Cas-9 showed no evidence of toxicity (infection) on cells and they concluded that edited cells could effectively be protected from HIV infection than unmodified cells.48
Role in Agriculture
As the world population continues to grow, the risk of shortage in agricultural resources is real. Hence, there is a need for new technologies for increasing and improving natural food production. CRISPR/Cas-9 is an existing addition to the field since it has been used to genetically modify foods to improve their nutritional value, increase their shelf life, make them drought-tolerant, and enhance disease resistance.18 There are generally three ways that CRISPR is solving the world’s food crisis. It can restore food supplies, help plants to survive in hostile conditions, and could improve the overall health of the plants.49
Role in Gene Activation and Silencing
Beyond genome editing activity, CRISPR/Cas-9 can be used to artificially regulate (activate or repress) a certain target of a gene through advanced modification of Cas-9 protein.15 Researchers had performed an advanced modified Cas-9 endonuclease called dCas-9 nuclease by inactivating its HNH and RuvC domains. The dCas-9 nuclease lacks DNA cleavage activity, but its DNA binding activity is not affected. Then, transcriptional activators or inhibitors can be fused with dCas-9 to form the CRISPR/dCas-9 complex. Therefore, catalytically inactive dCas-9 can be used to activate (CRISPRa) or silence (CRISPRi) the expression of a specific gene of interest.50 Moreover, the CRISPR/dCas-9 can be also used to visualize and pinpoint where specifically the gene of interest is located inside the cell (subcellular localization) by fusing a marker such as Green Fluorescent Proteins (GFP) with dCas-9 enzyme. This enables site-specific labeling and imaging of endogenous loci in living cells for further utilization.51


## Challenges for CRISPR/Cas-9 Application
Despite its great promise as a genome-editing system CRISPR/Cas-9 technology had hampered by several challenges that should be addressed during the process of application. Immunogenicity, lack of a safe and efficient delivery system to the target, off-target effect, and ethical issues have been the major barriers to extend the technology in clinical applications.52 Since the components of the CRISPR/Cas-9 system are derived from bacteria, host immunity can elicit an immune response against these components. Researchers also found that there were both pre-existing humoral (anti-Cas-9 antibody) and cellular (anti-Cas-9 T cells) immune responses to Cas-9 protein in healthy humans. Therefore, how to detect and reduce the immunogenicity of Cas-9 protein is still one of the most important challenges in the clinical trial of the system.53
Safe and effective delivery of the components into the cell is essential in CRISPR/Cas-9 gene editing. Currently, there are three methods of delivering the CRISPR/Cas-9 complex into cells, physical, chemical, and viral vectors. Non-viral (physical and chemical) methods are more suitable for ex vivo CRISPR/Cas-9-based gene editing therapy.54 The physical methods of delivering CRISPR/Cas-9 can include electroporation, microinjection, hydrodynamic injection, and so on. Electroporation applies a strong electric field to the cell membrane to temporarily increase the permeability of the membrane, allowing the CRISPR/Cas-9 complex to enter the cytoplasm of the target cell. However, the main limitation of this method is that it causes significant cell death.55 Microinjection involves injecting the CRISPR/Cas-9 complex directly into cells at the microscopic level for rapid gene editing of a single cell. Nevertheless, this method also has several disadvantages such as cell damage, which is technically challenging and is only suitable for a limited number of cells.56 The hydrodynamic injection is the rapid injection of a large amount of high-pressure liquid into the bloodstream of animals, usually using the tail vein of mice. Although this method is simple, fast, efficient, and versatile, it has not yet been used in clinical applications due to possible complications.57 The chemical methods of CRISPR/Cas-9 delivery involves lipid and polymer-based nanoparticles.58 Lipid nanoparticles/liposomes are spherical structures composed of lipid bilayers membrane and are synthesized in aqueous solutions using Lipofectamine-based reagents. The positively charged liposomes encapsulated with negatively charged nucleic acids thereby facilitate the fusion of the complex across the cell membrane into cells.59 Polymeric nanoparticles, such as polyethyleneimine and poly-L-lysine, are the most widely used carriers of CRISPR/Cas-9 components. Like lipid nanoparticles, polymer-based nanoparticles can also transverse the complex in the membrane through endocytosis.60
Viral vectors are the natural experts for in vivo CRISPR/Cas-9 delivery.61 Vectors, such as adenoviral vectors (AVs), adeno-associated viruses (AAVs), and lentivirus vectors (LVs) are currently being widely used as delivery methods due to their higher delivery efficiency relative to physical and chemical methods. Among them, AAVs are the most commonly used vectors due to their low immunogenicity and non-integration into the host cell genome compared to other viral vectors.62 However, the limited virus cloning capacity and the large size of the Cas-9 protein remain a major problem. One strategy to tackle this hurdle is to package sgRNA and Cas-9 into separate AAVs and then co-transfect them into cells. Recent methods employ a smaller strain of Cas-9 from Staphylococcus aureus (SaCas-9) instead of the more commonly used SpCas-9 to allow packaging of sgRNA and Cas-9 in the same AAVs.54,61 Lately, the development of extracellular vesicles (EVs), for the in vivo delivery of CRISPR/Cas-9 to avoid some of the limitations of viral and non-viral methods has shown a great potential.63
The designed sgRNA will mismatch to the non-target DNA and can result in nonspecific, unexpected genetic modification, which is called the off-target effect.57 The CRISPR/Cas-9 target efficiency is determined by the 20-nucleotide sequences of sgRNA and the PAM sequences adjacent to the target genome. It has been shown that more than three mismatches between the target sequence and the 20-nucleotide sgRNA can result in off-target effects.64 The off-target effect can possibly cause harmful events such as sequence mutation, deletion, rearrangement, immune response, and oncogene activation, which limits the application of the CRISPR/Cas-9 editing system for therapeutic purposes.65 To mitigate the possibility of CRISPR/Cas-9 off-target effect, several strategies have been developed, such as optimization of sgRNA, modification of Cas-9 nuclease, utilization of other Cas-variants, and the use of anti-CRISPR proteins.66 Selecting and designing an appropriate sgRNA for the targeted DNA sequence is an important first step to reduce the off-target effect.67 When designing sgRNA, strategies such as GC content, sgRNA length, and chemical modifications of sgRNA must be considered. Generally speaking, studies revealed that GC content of between 40% and 60%, truncated (short length of sgRNA), and incorporation of 2ʹ-O-methyl-3ʹ-phosphonoacetate in the sgRNA ribose-phosphate backbone are the preferred methods to increase genome editing efficiency of CRISPR/Cas-9.67,68 Modifying the Cas-9 protein to optimize its nuclease specificity is another way to reduce off-target effects. For instance, mutating either one of the catalytic residues of Cas-9 nuclease (HNH and RuvC) will convert the Cas-9 into nickase that could only generate a single-stranded break instead of a blunt cleavage.69 It has been reported that the use of the inactivated RuvC domain of Cas-9 with sgRNA can reduce the off-target effect by 100 to 1500 times.70 Moreover, the nuclease Cas-12a (previously known as Cpf1) is a type V CRISPR/Cas system that provides high genome editing efficiency.71 Unlike the CRISPR/Cas-9 system, CRISPR/Cas-12a can process pre-crRNA into mature crRNA without tracrRNA, thereby reducing the size of plasmid constructs. The Cas-12a protein recognizes a T-rich (5ʹ-TTTN) PAM sequence instead of 5ʹ-NGG and provides high accuracy at the target gene loci than Cas-9.69 Recently, the use of multicomponent Class I CRISPR proteins, such as CRISPR/Cas-3 and CRISPR/Cas-10 provides better genome editing efficiency than Cas-9.72 The Cas-3 is an ATP-dependent nuclease/helicase that can delete a large part of DNA from the target site without prominent off-target effect. For instance, the DMD gene were repaired by Cas-3-mediated system in induced pluripotent stem cell.73 The Cas-10 protein does not require the PAM sequence and can identify sequences even in the presence of point mutation.72 Anti-CRISPR (Acr) proteins are phage derived small proteins that inhibit the activity of CRISPR/Cas system. They are a recently discovered method to reduce off-target effects of CRISPR/Cas-9.74 From Acr proteins, AcrIIA4 specifically targets Cas-9 nuclease. AcrIIA4 mimics DNA and binds to the Cas-9 site, making impossible to perform further cleavage in area outside the target region.75 Furthermore, CRISPR/Cas-9 gene editing has been challenged by ethics and safety all over the world. Since the technology is still in its infancy and knowledge about the genome is limited, many scientists restrain that it still needs a lot of work to increase its accuracy and make sure that changes made in one part of the genome do not have unforeseen consequences, especially in the application towards human trials.52


## Role in Gene Activation and Silencing
Beyond genome editing activity, CRISPR/Cas-9 can be used to artificially regulate (activate or repress) a certain target of a gene through advanced modification of Cas-9 protein.15 Researchers had performed an advanced modified Cas-9 endonuclease called dCas-9 nuclease by inactivating its HNH and RuvC domains. The dCas-9 nuclease lacks DNA cleavage activity, but its DNA binding activity is not affected. Then, transcriptional activators or inhibitors can be fused with dCas-9 to form the CRISPR/dCas-9 complex. Therefore, catalytically inactive dCas-9 can be used to activate (CRISPRa) or silence (CRISPRi) the expression of a specific gene of interest.50 Moreover, the CRISPR/dCas-9 can be also used to visualize and pinpoint where specifically the gene of interest is located inside the cell (subcellular localization) by fusing a marker such as Green Fluorescent Proteins (GFP) with dCas-9 enzyme. This enables site-specific labeling and imaging of endogenous loci in living cells for further utilization.51


## Therapeutic Role of CRISPR/Cas-9
The first CRISPR-based therapy in the human trial was conducted to treat patients with refractory lung cancer. Researchers first extract T-cells from three patient’s blood and they engineered them in the lab through CRISPR/Cas-9 to delete genes (TRAC, TRBC, and PD-1) that would interfere to fight cancer cells. Then, they infused the modified T-cells back into the patients. The modified T-cells can target specific antigens and kill cancer cells. Finally, no side effects were observed and engineered T-cells can be detected up to 9 months of post-infusion.45 CRISPR/Cas-9 gene-editing technology could also be used to treat infectious diseases caused by microorganisms.46 One focus area for the researchers is treating HIV, the virus that leads to AIDS. In May 2017, a team of researchers from Temple University demonstrated that HIV-1 replication can be completely shut down and the virus eliminated from infected cells through excision of HIV-1 genome using CRISPR/Cas-9 in animal models.47 In addition to the approach of targeting the HIV-genome, CRISPR/Cas-9 technology can also be used to block HIV entry into host cells by editing chemokine co-receptor type-5 (CCR5) genes in the host cells. For instance, an in vitro trial conducted in China reported that genome editing of CCR5 by CRISPR/Cas-9 showed no evidence of toxicity (infection) on cells and they concluded that edited cells could effectively be protected from HIV infection than unmodified cells.48


## Components of CRISPR/Cas-9
Based on the structure and functions of Cas-proteins, CRISPR/Cas system can be divided into Class I (type I, III, and IV) and Class II (type II, V, and VI). The class I systems consist of multi-subunit Cas-protein complexes, while the class II systems utilize a single Cas-protein. Since the structure of type II CRISPR/Cas-9 is relatively simple, it has been well studied and extensively used in genetic engineering.10 Guide RNA (gRNA) and CRISPR-associated (Cas-9) proteins are the two essential components in CRISPR/Cas-9 system. The Cas-9 protein, the first Cas protein used in genome editing was extracted from Streptococcus pyogenes (SpCas-9). It is a large (1368 amino acids) multi-domain DNA endonuclease responsible for cleaving the target DNA to form a double-stranded break and is called a genetic scissor.11 Cas-9 consists of two regions, called the recognition (REC) lobe and the nuclease (NUC) lobe. The REC lobe consists of REC1 and REC2 domains responsible for binding guide RNA, whereas the NUC lobe is composed of RuvC, HNH, and Protospacer Adjacent Motif (PAM) interacting domains. The RuvC and HNH domains are used to cut each single-stranded DNA, while PAM interacting domain confers PAM specificity and is responsible for initiating binding to target DNA.12 Guide RNA is made up of two parts, CRISPR RNA (crRNA) and trans-activating CRISPR RNA (tracrRNA). The crRNA is an 18–20 base pair in length that specifies the target DNA by pairing with the target sequence, whereas tracrRNA is a long stretch of loops that serve as a binding scaffold for Cas-9 nuclease. In prokaryotes, the guide RNA is used to target viral DNA, but in the gene-editing tool, it can be synthetically designed by combining crRNA and tracrRNA to form a single guide RNA (sgRNA) in order to target almost any gene sequence supposed to be edited.11


## Role in Gene Therapy
More than 6000 genetic disorders have been known so far. But the majority of the diseases lack effective treatment strategies.19 Gene therapy is the process of replacing the defective gene with exogenous DNA and editing the mutated gene at its native location. It is the latest development in the revolution of medical biotechnology. From 1998 to August 2019, 22 gene therapies including the novel CRISPR/Cas-9 have been approved for the treatment of human diseases.20
Since its discovery in 2012, CRISPR/Cas-9 gene editing has held the promise of curing most of the known genetic diseases such as sickle cell disease, β-thalassemia, cystic fibrosis, and muscular dystrophy.21,22 CRISPR/Cas-9 for targeted sickle cell disease (SCD) therapy and β-thalassemia have been also applied in clinical trials.23 SCD is an autosomal recessive genetic disease of red blood cells, which occurs due to point mutation in the β-globin chain of hemoglobin leading to sickle hemoglobin (HbS). During the deoxygenation process, HbS polymerization leads to severe clinical complications like hemolytic anemia.24 Either direct repairing the gene of hemoglobin S or boosting fetal γ-globin are the two main approaches that CRISPR/Cas-9 is being used to treat SCD.25 However, the most common method used in a clinical trial is based on the approach of boosting fetal hemoglobin. First bone marrow cells are removed from patients and the gene that turns off fetal hemoglobin production, called B-cell Lymphoma 11A (BCL11A) is disabled with CRISPR/Cas-9. Then, the gene-edited cells are infused back into the body.26 BCL11A is a 200 base pair gene found on chromosome 2 and its product is responsible to switch γ-globin into the β-globin chain by repressing γ-globin gene expression.27 Once this gene is disabled using CRISPR/Cas-9, the production of fetal hemoglobin containing γ-globin in the red blood cells will increase, thereby alleviating the severity and manifestations of SCD.28
Scientists have been also investigating CRISPR/Cas-9 for the treatment of cystic fibrosis. The genetic mutation of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene decreases the structural stability and function of CFTR protein leading to cystic fibrosis.29 CFTR protein is an anion channel protein regulated by protein kinase-A, located at the apical surface of epithelial cells of the lung, intestine, pancreas, and reproductive tract.30 Although there is no cure for cystic fibrosis, symptom-based therapies (such as antibiotics, bronchodilators, and mucus thinning medications) and CFTR modulating drugs have become the first-line treatments to relieve symptoms and reduce the risk of complications.31 Currently, gene manipulation technologies and molecular targets are also being explored. The use of CRISPR/Cas-9 technology for genome editing has great potential, although it is in the early stages of development.32 In 2013, researchers culture intestinal stem cells from two cystic fibrosis patients and corrected the mutation at the CFTR locus resulting in the expression of the correct gene and full function of the protein. Since then, the potential utility of the application of CRISPR/Cas-9 for cystic fibrosis was established.33 Furthermore, Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), which is caused by a mutation in the dystrophin gene and characterized by muscle weakness, has been successfully corrected by CRISPR/Cas-9 in patient-induced pluripotent stem cells.34 Despite considerable efforts, the treatment available for DMD remains supportive rather than curative. Currently, several therapeutic approaches (gene therapy, cell therapy, and exon skipping) have been investigated to restore the expression of dystrophin in DMD muscles.35,36 Deletion/excision of intragenic DNA and removing the duplicated exon by CRISPR/Cas-9 are the new and promising approaches in correcting the DMD gene, which restores the expression of dystrophin protein.37
Moreover, the latest researches show that the CRISPR/Cas-mediated single-base editing and prime editing systems can directly install mutations in cellular DNA without the need for a donor template. The CRISPR/Cas-base editor and prime editor system do not produce DSB, which reduces the possibility of indels that are different from conventional Cas-9.38 So far, two types of base editors have been developed: cytosine base editor (CBE) and adenine base editor (ABE).39 The CBE is a type of base editor composed of cytidine deaminase fused with catalytically deficient or dead Cas-9 (dCas-9). It is one of the novel gene therapy strategies that can produce precise base changes from cytidine (C) to thymidine (T).40 However, the target range of the CBE base editor is still restricted by PAM sequences containing G, T, or A bases. Recently, a more advanced fidelity and efficiency base editor called nNme2-CBE (discovered from Neisseria meningitides) with expanded PAM compatibility for cytidine dinucleotide has been developed in both human cells and rabbits embryos.41 The ABE uses adenosine deaminase fused to dCas-9 to correct the base-pair change from adenosine (A) to guanosine (G).38 Overall, single-base editing through the fusion of dCas-9 to cytidine deaminase or adenosine deaminase is a safe and efficient method to edit point mutations. But both base editors can only fix four-transition mutations (purine to purine or pyrimidine to pyrimidine).42 To overcome this shortcoming, the most recent member of the CRISPR genome editing toolkit called Prime Editor (PE) has been developed to extend the scope of DNA editing beyond the four types of transition mutations.43 PE contains Cas-9 nickase fused with engineered reverse transcriptase and multifunctional primer editing guide RNA (pegRNA). The pegRNA recognizes the target nucleotide sequence; the Cas-9 nickase cuts the non-complementary strand of DNA three bases upstream from the PAM site, exposing a 3ʹ-OH nick of genomic DNA. The reverse transcriptase then extends the 3ʹ nick by copying the edit sequence of pegRNA. Hence, PE not only corrects all 12 possible base-to-base transitions, and transversion mutations but also small insertion and deletion mutations in genetic disorders.44




---

Title: What is CRISPR? A bioengineer explains - Stanford Report
**Definition:** CRISPR is not merely a tool for research.

**Key Points:** Unlike gene editing, epigenome editing is reversible, safer, and promising for complex diseases that can not be easily targeted by gene editing. For example, if a person doesn’t have enough properly working proteins, we can use epigenome editing to increase the gene expression over a long term to make more proteins to compensate for this deficiency problem, thus restoring the function to normal in patients. Rather than using CRISPR to modify DNA, we can use our epigenome editing technology to permanently silence the gene without modifying the DNA.

## What is CRISPR? A bioengineer explains
The gene-editing technology solves long-standing challenges in engineering, medicine, and environmental science.


